Diagnosis diagnoses Resected section of colon transvers e colon  with a colon carcinoma characterized histologically as a moderately differentiated, partially mucinous colorectal adenocarcinoma, located at the base of a tubulovillous adenoma with severe e pithelial dysplasia synonymous: profound intraepithelial neoplasia, extending a max of 5 cm to a resection margin and measuring 2 cm in diameter at the widest point. Invasive spreading of the tumor to the submucosa level. Located 4 cm from the same rese ction margin there is a microscopically small section or remains of an adenoma of the colon mucosa , tubular in form and with slight epithelial dysplasia synonym: mild intraepithelial neoplasia. In addition, in the centre of the preparation there is a mic roscopically small tubular adenoma of the colon mucosa or remains of an adenoma with moderate epithelial dysplasia synonym: mild intraepithelial neoplasia. Oral and aboral resection margins are tumor -free as is the greater omentum. 18 mesocolic lymph nod es are tumor -free with uncharacteristic reactive lesion s. Therefore the tumor stage is pT1 pN0 018 L0 V0 R0; G2 
Right hemicolectomy preparation with ulcerated colon carcinoma of the histological type of a moderately differentiated colorectal adenocarcinoma, located in the area of the passage between the cecum and ascending colon, encircling the intestinal wall and measuring 4.5 cm in length. Invasive spreading of the tumor within all intestinal wall layers to the bordering mesocolic adipose tissue. Diagnosis: Appendix with fibrous obliteration of the lumen. Tumor -free oral and aboral resection margin as well as great er omentum. Fifty lymph nodes in the region tumor -free with uncharacteristically reactive changes. Tumor stage therefore pT3 pN0 050 LO0 V0: G2 R0. 
Diagnosis  Diagnoses:  1.: Resectate of the colon or sigmoid colon with diverticulosis, with tumor -free oral and aboral resection margins and under inclusion of an ulcerated, moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma, with infiltration of the perimuscular fatty tissue and without regional lymph node metastases G2, pT3 pN0 028 L0 V0 R0. 2.: Tubular colonic mucosal adenoma with slight dysplasia synonym: low -grade intra - epithelial neoplasia.
Path First Tumor Tumor Site: Sigmoid Distal 3 Date of Cancer Sample Procurement: Histology: Adenocarcinoma -3 Description of other histology: r Grade : Moderately Differentiated Mucinous:  No r Yes C YesFocalC Unknown Signet Ring Feature: e No C Yes C YesFocal- Unknown Histologic Heterogeneity: r: No C Yes C Unknown Host Response: Lymphoid Aggregates .r Crohn s like reaction r None e Yes C Unknown Plasma cell rich stroma C No C Yes C Unknown Growth Pattern: C Expansile 0- Invasive C Expansile - Unknownand Invasive Inflammatory Bowel Disease r No C Yes C Unknown Angiolymphatic Invasion: C No Yes C Unknown Mutator Phenotype: r No C Yes C Unknown Number of Slides 2 Garland Necrosis present: C No f Yes C YesFocal Unknown TIL Cells  HPF 10 Pathologist Comment: C11 --Q-3 rv Ga u eYrS Q- ?1113 S 14.4 ;yd,y pv,T 6 e f,q C I b- 7 UUID:E6C435FB-1238-4113 -A152-C7AF7620E748 Redacted TCGA -DMA20F -01A-PRtir 5311IIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIII II IIIIIIII -II IIII I IIIIIIIIIII I IIIIIIIIIIIII C,Reri.yes tln III I 1111111 IIIIIIIIIIII111Diafnnsc Dsuepan,y IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIII1IIII HiPU. DixrePanty  Pr:o; NLdigany His:nry l- Usal:Synhor .ous Priu ry hntwW w L C- B ckdc : QHAMFA D l 11J ReWeweriit :ah Dave Revirwea 
Diagnosis Diagnoses 1. Mechanically altered liver tissue with sections of a regressively changed cyst with partially dystrophic wall calcification. 2. Subcapsular liver tissue with circumscribed, clearly regeneratory, nodular hyperplasia and moderate steatosis . 3. Resected ileocolic sample with a moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma of the colorectal type, measuring max 4 cm, with infiltration of the tunica muscularis propria up to the border of the perimuscular fatty tissue. Tumor -free local lymph nodes. Tumor -free small and large intestine resection margins. Tumor -free mesenteric resection margin. Complete, scarred obliteration of the appendix with a condition following previous appendicitis. The tumor stage is: pT2, pN0 023, pMX; G2, L0, V0, R 
LARGE INTESTINE TISSUE CHECKLIST Specimen type: Sigmoid colectomy Specimen size: Not specifiedTumor site: Sigmoid colonTumor size: 8.5 x 4.5 x 1.5 cmTumor features: None specifiedHistologic type: AdenocarcinomaHistologic grade: Moderately differentiatedTumor extent: Pericolonic tissues Lymph nodes: 08 positive for metastasis Regional 08Margins: Not specified Evidence of neo-adjuvant treatment: Not specifiedAdditional pathologic findings: Not specifiedComments: None
  - -7-3 NOS 8iy03 64cF C 9,7 Sample ID i1allt Diagnosis: Resectate of the large intestine under inclusion of a centrally ulcerated, pQo y differentiated adenocarcinoma of the colorectal type and of max. 4.5 cm in diameter, with broad infiltration of the pericolic fatty tissue, extensive lymphangiosis carcinomatosa and thirty-two regional lymph node metastases. Rumor-free large intestinal resection margins. Tumor-free mesenteric resection margin. Tumor stage : pT3 pN2 3240 pMX; G3; LI, V0, RX UUID:D60FE415- 78E3-4986-802C-EAF36A583E28TCGA-AA-A000-01A-PR Redacted III IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII Creria Diagnosis Discrepancy Primary Tumor Site Discrepancyj 40
Diagnosis diagnoses: Resected colon sample with a moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma of the colorectal type, measuring a max of 5.5 cm in diameter, with infiltration of the tunica muscularis propria up to the border of the pericolic fatty tissue. The tumor stage is: pT2, pN0 027 pMX; G2, L0, V0, R0
RUN DATE: RUN TIME. RUN USER:I PATIENT REG DR: SPEC User: ACCT ti :REGAGESX:ROOM: DOB:BED: DIS: STATUS: RECD:STATUS: COLL:TIME IN FORMALIN :6:26 hrs. COLDISCHEMA TIME :0:00 mina. CLINICAL INFORMATION: Pre-Op Diagnosis:Colon cancer Remarks: Specimens: A.Omental implant B.Left colon C.METs rPAGE I OMENTAL IMPLANT RESECTION: C MUCINOUS ADENOCARCINOMA CONSISTENT WITH COLON PRIMARY LEFT COLON ,LEFT HEMICOLECTOMY: -MUCINOUS ADENOCARCINOMA OF THE DESCENDING COLON POSSIBLY ARISING IN TUBULOVILLOUS ADENOMA CARCINOMA INVADES THROUGH COLON WALL INTO R ADIALSUSER SALADIPOSE TISSUE AND EXTENDS TO WITHIN 1 MM OF PERITONEAL SURFACE TUMOR ADHERENT TO ABDOMINAL WALL BY CLINICAL HISTORY SURGICAL MARGINS OF RESECTION FREE OF TUMOR WITH CLOSEST MARGIN RADIAL MARGIN 1MM -METASTATIC MUCINOUS ADENOCARCINOMAJN THREE3OF NINETEEN 19 SUBSEROSAL LYMP H NODES LYMPH-VASCULAR INVASION NOT IDENTIFIED SEE COMMENT FOR SURGICAL PATHOLOGY CANCER CASE SUMMARY CHECKLIST PERITONEAL METASTASES, RESECTION: -MUCINOUS ADENOCARCINOMA CONSISTENT WITH METASTATIC COLON CARCINOMA COMMENTS At request ofthe specimen will be be reported as an addendum when complete.forwarded for KRAS analysis.Results will SURGICAL PATHOLOGY CANCER CASE SUMMARY - APPROVED BY COLLEGE OF AMERICAN PATHOLOGISTS SPECIMEN:Descending colon PROCEDURE:Left hemicolectomy TUMOR SITE:Left descending colon  CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE UUID:84D412AD-FD5C-4397-B56E-62F39A375751 TCGA-NH-A6GC-91A-PR Redacted III IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII11111IIIIIIIIIIIIIIoil IN IIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIRUN DATE: RUN TIME RUN USER: SPEC: COMMENTSUser: PATIENT: TUMOR SIZE: MACROSCOPIC TUMOR PERFORATION: HISTOLOGIC TYPE: HISTOLOGIC GRADE: MICROSCOPIC TUMOR EXTENSION: MARGINS: TREATMENT F FELT : LYMPH -VAT- AR INVASION: PERINEU ,.. INVASION : TUMOR  -:,:POSITS: TYPEOF POLYP IN WHICH INVASIVE CARCINOMA AROSE: PATHOLOGIC STAGING: ANCILLARY . TUDIES:ContinuedPAGE 2 Continued 8.0 cm Not identified Mucinous adenocarcinoma Low-grade Tumor is adherent to other organs or structures, abdominal wall If all margins uninvolved by invasive carcinoma, distance of invasive carcinoma from closest margin: 1mm, radial Proximal margin :uninvolved by invasive carcinoma Distal margin :uninvolved by invasive carcinoma Circumferential margin: uninvolved by invasive carcinoma No prior treatment Not identified Not identified Not identified Tubulovillous adenoma - possible Primary tumor: pT4b Regional lymph nodes: pNlb Number of lymph nodes examined: 19 Number of lymph nodes involved: 3 Distant metastasis :pMlb,omentum and peritoneum KRAS mutational analysis pending GROSS DESCRIPTION: The specimen is received in three parts .Each part is labeled with the patient s name. A. Labeled omental implant is received fresh for frozen section diagnosis and is a 9.0 x6.0 x 2 .5cm diffusely indurated ,nodular portion of yellow ,lobulated omental adipose. Theadipose has multiple ,mucinous tumor masses with two large masses ranging up to 6.0 x 4.5 x2.5 cm.The section is sampled for frozen section diagnosis .The tissue is sampled to havesolid to minutely cystic ,mucin-filled masses throughout the specimen .A setticiii is sampledfor frozen section diagnosis .An additional section is sampled for tissue banking, Additional representative sections are sampled from across the specimen: Al -frozen section residue A2-A4 -additional sections sampled B. Labeled left colon and received fresh for tissue banking is a 23 cm segment of largebowel.The bowel has a distal area of indurated ,creeping fat. This region is inked blue onthe serosa .The bowel is opened to have an 8.0 x 7.0 x 3 .0cm mucinous tumor mass. The masscomes to within 4 .5cm of the distal margin ,14 cm from proximal .The tumor diffuselyinvolves and extends through the bowel wall and extends close to the inked serosa and mesenteric ,radial fat margin .There is 1.5 cm of adipose between the bowel wall and radialfat margin .The tumor extends nearly to this inked margin ,Surrounding mucosa is otherwiseunremarkable with normal ,tan folds .The adipose is sectioned to have multiple nodularlymph nodes .The lymph nodes are focally tumor replaced with a mucinous appearing cut  CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE RUN DATE RUN TIME? RUN USER: SPEC IiUser PATIENT:PAGE 3 Continued GROSS DESCRIPTION: Continued surface.Sections of the tumor are sampled for tissue banking,Representative sections aresampled for routine histology as labeled: B1 -proximal margin B2 --distal margin B3-B7 -sections of tumor extending through bowel wall into underlying adipose to the inked serosal and radial fat margin138-11 -whole lymph nodes from proximal to distalB12 -tumor replaced lymph node sampled . C.Labeled METS and received in formalin is a 5.0 x 3.0 x 2.0 cm portion of yellow adipose. The adipose has two mucinous tumor nodules at either pole. The smaller nodule is 1.0 cm and the larger nodule is 2.3 x 2.3 x 1,7 cm. Representative sections are sampled to include normal, adjacent omental adipose cassettes C1-C2. MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION: The slides are examined and evaluated. INTRAOPERATIVE CONSULTATION: FROZEN SECTION DIAGNOSIS, OMENTAL IMPLANT: METASTATIC ADENOCARCINOMA Image Image Image Image Image Signed signature on file  END OF REPORT  uat,ozis 0iscrepanc imarl ixnor Site Discft ,.anry ?AAJi;ac .nry - c i;r Ma nan.y History 0U36.;Vr.i-.nnrs Prima
RUN DATE: RUN TIME: RUN USER - PATIENT REG DR: SPEC User: ACCT It:REGAGESX:ROOM: BED: DIS:DOB- STATUS: RECD:STATUS: COLL:TIME IN FORMALIN :6:26 hrs. COLDISCHEMA TIME: 0:00 minx. CLINICAL INFORMATION: Pre-Op Diagnosis:Colon cancer Remarks: Specimens: A.Omental implant B.Left colon C. METs  1111 Iqtj6JVV-A OMENTALIMPLANT RESECTION: STC MUCINOUS ADENOCARCINOMA CONSISTENT WITH COLON PRIMARYttttPAGE 1 LEFT COLON. LEFT t-EMICOLECTOMY:MUCINOUS ADENOCARCINOMA OF THE DESCENDING COLON POSSIBLY ARISING IN TUBULOVILLOUS ADENOMA CARCINOMA INVADES THROUGH COLON WALLLINTO S RADIALUBSEROSAL ADIPOSE TISSUE AND EXTENDS TO WITHIN 1 MM OF PERITONEAL SURFA C E TUMOR ADHERENT TO ABDOMINAL WALL BY CLINICAL HISTORY SURGICAL MARGINS OF RESECTION FREE OF TUMOR WITH CLOSEST MARGIN RADIAL MARGIN 1MMMETASTATIC MUCINOUS ADENOCARCINOMA,IN THREE 3 OFNINETEEN 19 SUBSEROSAL LYMPH NODES LYMPH-VASCULAR INVASION NOT IDENTIFIED SEE COMMENT FOR SURGICAL PATHOLOGY CANCER CASE SUMMARY CHECKLIST PERITONEAL METASTASES, RESECTION: MUCINOUS ADENOCARCINOMA CONSISTENT WITH METASTATIC COLON CARCINOMA COMMENTS At request ofthe specimen will be forwarded for KR..S analysisResults will he reported as an addendum when complete. SURGICAL PATHOLOGY CANCER CASE SUMMARY - APPROVED BY COLLEGE OF AMERICAN PATHOLOGISTS SPECIMEN:Descending colonQUID:iD9D000B-044F-4304.8C27.077BB64ASC48 IIIed PROCEDURE: LefthemicolectomyTOGA -NH-A6GC -86A-PR Reda cted Illll lllllllllllllllllilllliilii lillililliliiillillliliillllllTUMOR SITE :Left descending colon III I IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIII llllllllllllllllllllfllllll CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE III IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIRUN DATE: RUN TIMI RUN USER:User: SPEC N: PATIENT: COMMENTS TUMOR SIZE: MACROSCOPIC TUMOR PERFORATION: HISTOLOGIC TYPE: HISTOLOGIC GRADE: MICROSCOPIC TUMOR EXTENSION: MARGINS: TREATMENT r FECT : LYMPH-W AR INVASION: PERINEt ; INVASION: TUMOR  :OSITS: TYPE Car OLYP IN WHICH INVASIVE CARCINOMA AROSE: PATHOLOGIC STAGING: ANCILLARY STUDIES:ContinuedPAGE 2 Continued 8.0 cm Not identified Mucinous adenocarcinoma Low-grade Tumor is adherent to other organs or structures. abdominal wall If all margins uninvolved by invasive carcinoma, distance of invasive carcinoma from closest margin: 1mm, radial Proximal margin :uninvolved by invasive carcinoma Distal margin :uninvolved by invasive carcinoma Circumferential margin :uninvolved by invasive carcinoma No prior treatment Not identified Not identified Not identified Tubulovillous adenoma - possible Primary tumor: pT4b Regional lymphnodes: pNlb Numberof lymph nodes examined: 19 Number of lymph nodes involved: 3 Distant metastasis :pMlb,omentum and peritoneum KRAS mutational analysis pending GROSSDESCRIPTION: The specimen is received in three parts .Each part is labeled with the patient s name. A. Labeled  omental implant is received fresh for frozen section diagnosis and is a 9.0 x6.0 x 2.5 cm diffusely indurated ,nodular portion of yellow, lobulatedomental adipose. Theadipose has multiple ,mucinous tumor masses with two large masses rangingup to 6.0 x 4.5 x 2.5 cm.The section is sampled for frozen section diagnosis .The tissue is sampled to havesolid to minutely cystic, mucin-filledmasses throughout the specimen. A section is sampledfor frozen section diagnosis .An additionalsection is sampled for tissue banking,Additionalrepresentative sections are sampled from across the specimen: Al -frozen section residue A2-A4 -additional sections sampled B.Labeled left colon and received freshfor tissue banking is a 23 cm segment of largebowel, The bowel has adistal area of indurated, creeping tat. This rogion is inkod bluo onthe serosa .The bowel is opened to have an 8.0 x 7.0 x 3.0 cm mucinous tumor mass. The masscomesto within 4.5 cm of the distal margin. 14 cm from proximal. The tumor diffusely involves and extends through the bowel wall and extends close to the inked serosa andmesenteric ,radial fat margin,There is 1,5 cm of adipose between the bowel wall and radialfat margin .The tumor extends nearly to this inked margin, Surroundingmucosa is otherwiseUnremarkable with normal, tan folds. The adipose is sectioned to have multiple nodularlymph nodes. The lymph nodes are focally tumor replaced with a mucinous appearing cut CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE w IRUN DATE RUN TIME. RUN USER: SPECUUser PATIENT:PAGE 3 Continued GROSS DESCRIPTION: Continued surface. Sections of the tumor are sampled for tissue banking, Representative sections aresampled for routine histology as labeled: Bi -proximal margin B2 --distal margin B3-B7 -sections of tumor extending through bowel wall into underlying adipose to the inked serosal and radial fat marginB8-B11 -whole lymph nodes from proximal to distalB12 -tumor replaced lymph node sampled C.Labeled METS and received in formalin is a 5.0 x 3.0 x 2.0 cm portion of yellow adipose. The adipose has two mucinous tumor nodules at either pole. The smaller nodule is 1.0 cm and the larger nodule is 2.3 x 2.3 x 1.7 cm, Representative sections are sampled to include normal. adjacent omental adipose cassettes C1-C2. MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION: The slides are examined and evaluated. INTRAOPERATIVE CONSULTATION: FROZEN SECTION DIAGNOSIS, OMENTAL IMPLANT: METASTATIC ADENOCARCINOMA Image Image Image tmage Image Signed signature on file END OF REPORT a w C61:6S t3 .. 013 ye. No .ite P un   , ,ary ?.rater PAV. naniy HMO,y DIS. I1ALf ,U ,ewd J ,
Diagnosis: This is an invasive adeno carcinoma of the colon G2  sigmoid colon with infiltration of all parietal layers pT3 with vascular infiltration L1, V1, with free resection margins and six lymph node metastases 6 of 12 . Tumor classification : ICDO -DA M G2 pT3, L1, V1, locally R0, pN2 6 of 12
G16 -a 3 nlvs 803 ,5;f t,-.rn4 W- e F Sample ID : Diagnosis: 1.: Tumor-free lymph node from the mesenteric root. 2.: Resectate of the transverse colon with tumor-free oral and aboral resection margins and under inclusion of a locally advanced, ulcerated, poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma with penetration of all layers of the wall, with infiltration of the perimuscular fatty tissue and the neighboring omentum, with invasion of the stomach wall and without regional lymph node metastases G3, pT4 LO VO RO pNO 045. 3.: Tumor-free spleen with fresh iatrogenic defects to the capsule. As requested, a paraffin block of the material was sent to Prof. for further analyses to exclude or demonstrate the presence of an HNPCC situation. A follow-up report on this will be submitted at a later date. Follow-up report: Based on the findings described in the enclosed copy of the consultation report that has now arrived, Prof. Pathology, finds no further indications of the presence of an hereditary predisposition to the spectrum of tumors within the HNPCC  Lynch Syndrome. i UUID:7C26217F- 5005-4D0F-9E8A -01E31908AB01 III IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII111111IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII11111111111Redact ed IIIllllliii11111i11l11111lllJ 1111 Illll1111llll111llllll11111111III 111111! II 111111 IIIIIIIIII II IIIIIIIIU11111111III 1111111111111 C.gnosis ii;crr pa,- Pimar ite 9iscreaan.,, Prior aiina ,4 grh :istLry I7na;;ynrhrnncus Primary. 
r lC b-o -3 Jr1- JJ1y3   c1  u A,41 c N Diagnosis  Diagnoses: Right hemicolectomy specimen with multiple tubular colonic mucosal adenomas with moderate dysplasia synonym: low-grade intra-epithelial neoplasia and under inclusion of an ulcerated, moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma in the ascending colon, with infiltration of the lamina muscularis propria and without regional lymph node metastases G2, pT2 pNO 028 LO VO RO. UUID:0DSB2106- A2F1- 96CD-8E46D349D60B IIIIlIIIllllllll11111111111111111111 1 PR111111111111111111111111111111111111lllllll1111111111eaIIIIIIllll11111111111111f1f l lllllllllllllll j1111111111111111 111111111111111 I  Eclrerq DiaynusisDiscrevan Primarytumor SiteDlscrev Mlvq,aDism PriceP-My DualMalinan History Ynch.onous Pmm 4ael cln:lel:Yea
I Sample ID  Diagnosis: Extended hemicolectomy specimen with two invasive, moderately differentiated adenocarcinomas with infiltration of the pericolic fatty tissue and status following endoscopic resection of a further adenocarcinoma. Multiple tubular adenomas with moderate dysplasia synonym: low-grade intra-epithelial neoplasia. Two lymph node metastases. Tumor-free resection margins in the region of the mucosa. Tumor-free omentum. Tumor classification :adenocarcinoma , G2 pT3  mult3 nl 2116 LO VO RO CD- V-3 C41 tGr - 2 -NG f 0Jirt-CI-- ,L 313 o il UU1D:670DA42C-A894-45FC-9785-178852AE83F7 RedactedII II IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIll III III111111IIIIIIIIIIIIIIII II1II IIIIIIII I I II IIIIIII111111111III t.rlterla Di.gwm Disrepa,.y Nimrry Tumor 54r Di.rrenanry HiPU. Dlsrmparw.y L, tni !im y History D.:;I;St acl rm.ouz Pr mary C se is circle: KDISQUALlrlED
-A6-2675 SPECIMEN Sigmoid colon CLINICAL NOTES PRE-OP DIAGNOSIS: Sigmoid cancer GROSS DESCRIPTION and to Received fresh, subsequently fixed in formalin labeled sigmoid colon is a 17 em. long portion of colon which is opened on both ends. The serosa is pink-tan smooth glistening the specimen is predominantly covered with abundant yellow lobular fat and pink-tan smooth glistening serosa. The specimen is opened show pink-tan smooth glistening mucosa with an average circumference of 4 ern. The specimen shows a 3.2 x 2.5 x 0.5 em. tumor which shows ulcerated center and raised borders. The cut surface of this shows gross invasion into the muscularis propria and comes within 7.5 em. of the radial margin; however, there is an umbilication near the serosa and the fat meet. This is inked and the tumor comes vIi thin 0.7 cm. of this area. No other discrete gross lesions are identified. Lymph nodes are grossly identified in the fat. Representative sections of the specimen are submitted as follows: BLOCK SUMMARY: 1 -representative luminal margins; 2 - representative section of tumor to fat and serosa; 3-5 -additional representative sections of tumor to fat; 6 -representative radial margins; 7 - 4 possible lymph nodes; 8 - 6 possible lymph nodes; 9 6 possible lymph nodes; 10 -3 possible lymph nodes. RS-10 II1II MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION Histologic type: Adenocarcinoma. Histologic grade: Moderately differentiated. Primary tumor pT: Tumor invades through the muscularis propria to MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION the junction of the muscularis propria and serosa pT3. Proximal margin: Negative. Distal margin: Negative. Circumferential radial margin: Negative. Vascular invasion: Negative. Regional lymph nodes pN: Eleven mesenteric lymph nodes are negative for metastatic carcinoma pNO. Non-lymph node pericolonic tumor: Absent. Distant metastasis pM: Cannot be assessed pMX. 5 DIAGNOSIS Colon, sigmoid, segmental resection: Invasive moderately differentiated colonic adenocarcinoma extending through the muscularis propria to the junction of the muscularis propria and serosa. Proximal, distal and radial margins of resection are free of tumor. Eleven mesenteric lymph nodes negative for metastatic carcinoma 011 . 
 DiagnosisDiagnoses:  16-cm long large bowel resection specimen including a polypoid, moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma of the colorectal type with infiltration of the pericolic fatty tissue and with three regional lymph node metastases. Tumor -free large bowel resection margins. Tumor -free mesenteric resection margin. An inflammatory portion of the urinary bladder fused with the large bowel and a ductus deferens segment, adhering in the tumor area. Tumor stage: pT3 pN1 343 pMX; G2, L0 V0, l ocal R0. 
Diagnosis: This is a right- sided hemicolectomy preparation with a moderately differentiated adeno carcinoma in the ascending colon of histopathological differentiation grade G2, with erosions of the inner tumor surface, with carcinomatous lymphangitis, wi th tumor infiltration of the colon wall layers into the pericolic fatty connective tissue with peritumorous chronic recurrent secondary inflammati on with an acute inflammatory flare, with focal extracellular mucus formation in the tumor tissue, with tumor -free lymph nodes 016 with a moderate chronic lymphadenitis and with tumor -free overview slices from all other resection material portions described. There is also a chronic appendicitis . According to the section preparations available, the tumor spread of the colon carcinoma corresponds to a tumor stage of pT3, pN0 016, MX, L1, R0. Tumor classification: ICDO -DA-M 81403, G 2 11 
 page 1  1 page 1  1 page 1  1 page 1  1 page 1  1 page 1  1 Department of Cancer Pathology Department of Cancer Pathology Department of Cancer Pathology Department of Cancer Pathology Department of Cancer Pathology Department of Cancer Pathology Department of Cancer Pathology Department of Cancer Pathology Department of Cancer Pathology Department of Cancer Pathology Department of Cancer Pathology Department of Cancer Pathology copy No. 4 Date: Date: Date: Date: ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon cito ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon cito ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon cito ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon cito ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon cito ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon cito ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon cito ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon cito ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon cito ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon cito ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon cito ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon cito ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon cito Internal invoice No.Internal invoice No.Internal invoice No.Internal invoice No. Cost of diagnosOc procedureCost of diagnosOc procedureCost of diagnosOc procedureCost of diagnosOc procedureCost of diagnosOc procedureCost of diagnosOc procedureCost of diagnosOc procedure ExaminaFon No.: ExaminaFon No.: PaOent: XXX PaOent: XXX PESEL: XXX PESEL: XXX PESEL: XXX PESEL: XXX Age: Gender : Gender : Gender : Gender : Gender : Gender : Material: 1. MulFple organ resecFon  sigmoid colon Material: 1. MulFple organ resecFon  sigmoid colon Material: 1. MulFple organ resecFon  sigmoid colon Material: 1. MulFple organ resecFon  sigmoid colon Material: 1. MulFple organ resecFon  sigmoid colon Material: 1. MulFple organ resecFon  sigmoid colon Material: 1. MulFple organ resecFon  sigmoid colon Material: 1. MulFple organ resecFon  sigmoid colon Material: 1. MulFple organ resecFon  sigmoid colon Material: 1. MulFple organ resecFon  sigmoid colon Material: 1. MulFple organ resecFon  sigmoid colon Material: 1. MulFple organ resecFon  sigmoid colon Material: 1. MulFple organ resecFon  sigmoid colon Unit in charge: Unit in charge: Unit in charge: Unit in charge: Unit in charge: Unit in charge: Unit in charge: Unit in charge: Unit in charge: Unit in charge: Unit in charge: Unit in charge: Unit in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Material collected on: Material collected on: Material collected on: Material received on:Material received on:Material received on:Material received on:Material received on:Material received on: Expected Ome of examinaOon: Expected Ome of examinaOon: Expected Ome of examinaOon: Expected Ome of examinaOon: Expected Ome of examinaOon: Expected Ome of examinaOon: Expected Ome of examinaOon: Expected Ome of examinaOon: Expected Ome of examinaOon: Expected Ome of examinaOon: Expected Ome of examinaOon: Expected Ome of examinaOon: Expected Ome of examinaOon: Clinical diagnosis: Cancer of the sigmoid colonClinical diagnosis: Cancer of the sigmoid colonClinical diagnosis: Cancer of the sigmoid colonClinical diagnosis: Cancer of the sigmoid colonClinical diagnosis: Cancer of the sigmoid colonClinical diagnosis: Cancer of the sigmoid colonClinical diagnosis: Cancer of the sigmoid colonClinical diagnosis: Cancer of the sigmoid colonClinical diagnosis: Cancer of the sigmoid colonClinical diagnosis: Cancer of the sigmoid colonClinical diagnosis: Cancer of the sigmoid colonClinical diagnosis: Cancer of the sigmoid colonClinical diagnosis: Cancer of the sigmoid colon ExaminaOon performed on:ExaminaOon performed on:ExaminaOon performed on:ExaminaOon performed on:ExaminaOon performed on:ExaminaOon performed on:ExaminaOon performed on:ExaminaOon performed on:ExaminaOon performed on:ExaminaOon performed on: Macroscopic descripOon : A 15.2 cm length of the large intesFne with a piece of mesentery sized 15 x 6.5 x 2.5 cm. Ulcerous tumour sized 4.2 x 6.5 x 0.8 cm in the mucosa. The lesion surrounding 90 of the intesFne circumference, removed 7.2 cm from the incision line and 5.3 cm from the opposite one.Macroscopic descripOon : A 15.2 cm length of the large intesFne with a piece of mesentery sized 15 x 6.5 x 2.5 cm. Ulcerous tumour sized 4.2 x 6.5 x 0.8 cm in the mucosa. The lesion surrounding 90 of the intesFne circumference, removed 7.2 cm from the incision line and 5.3 cm from the opposite one.Macroscopic descripOon : A 15.2 cm length of the large intesFne with a piece of mesentery sized 15 x 6.5 x 2.5 cm. Ulcerous tumour sized 4.2 x 6.5 x 0.8 cm in the mucosa. The lesion surrounding 90 of the intesFne circumference, removed 7.2 cm from the incision line and 5.3 cm from the opposite one.Macroscopic descripOon : A 15.2 cm length of the large intesFne with a piece of mesentery sized 15 x 6.5 x 2.5 cm. Ulcerous tumour sized 4.2 x 6.5 x 0.8 cm in the mucosa. The lesion surrounding 90 of the intesFne circumference, removed 7.2 cm from the incision line and 5.3 cm from the opposite one.Macroscopic descripOon : A 15.2 cm length of the large intesFne with a piece of mesentery sized 15 x 6.5 x 2.5 cm. Ulcerous tumour sized 4.2 x 6.5 x 0.8 cm in the mucosa. The lesion surrounding 90 of the intesFne circumference, removed 7.2 cm from the incision line and 5.3 cm from the opposite one.Macroscopic descripOon : A 15.2 cm length of the large intesFne with a piece of mesentery sized 15 x 6.5 x 2.5 cm. Ulcerous tumour sized 4.2 x 6.5 x 0.8 cm in the mucosa. The lesion surrounding 90 of the intesFne circumference, removed 7.2 cm from the incision line and 5.3 cm from the opposite one.Macroscopic descripOon : A 15.2 cm length of the large intesFne with a piece of mesentery sized 15 x 6.5 x 2.5 cm. Ulcerous tumour sized 4.2 x 6.5 x 0.8 cm in the mucosa. The lesion surrounding 90 of the intesFne circumference, removed 7.2 cm from the incision line and 5.3 cm from the opposite one.Macroscopic descripOon : A 15.2 cm length of the large intesFne with a piece of mesentery sized 15 x 6.5 x 2.5 cm. Ulcerous tumour sized 4.2 x 6.5 x 0.8 cm in the mucosa. The lesion surrounding 90 of the intesFne circumference, removed 7.2 cm from the incision line and 5.3 cm from the opposite one.Macroscopic descripOon : A 15.2 cm length of the large intesFne with a piece of mesentery sized 15 x 6.5 x 2.5 cm. Ulcerous tumour sized 4.2 x 6.5 x 0.8 cm in the mucosa. The lesion surrounding 90 of the intesFne circumference, removed 7.2 cm from the incision line and 5.3 cm from the opposite one.Macroscopic descripOon : A 15.2 cm length of the large intesFne with a piece of mesentery sized 15 x 6.5 x 2.5 cm. Ulcerous tumour sized 4.2 x 6.5 x 0.8 cm in the mucosa. The lesion surrounding 90 of the intesFne circumference, removed 7.2 cm from the incision line and 5.3 cm from the opposite one.Macroscopic descripOon : A 15.2 cm length of the large intesFne with a piece of mesentery sized 15 x 6.5 x 2.5 cm. Ulcerous tumour sized 4.2 x 6.5 x 0.8 cm in the mucosa. The lesion surrounding 90 of the intesFne circumference, removed 7.2 cm from the incision line and 5.3 cm from the opposite one.Macroscopic descripOon : A 15.2 cm length of the large intesFne with a piece of mesentery sized 15 x 6.5 x 2.5 cm. Ulcerous tumour sized 4.2 x 6.5 x 0.8 cm in the mucosa. The lesion surrounding 90 of the intesFne circumference, removed 7.2 cm from the incision line and 5.3 cm from the opposite one.Macroscopic descripOon : A 15.2 cm length of the large intesFne with a piece of mesentery sized 15 x 6.5 x 2.5 cm. Ulcerous tumour sized 4.2 x 6.5 x 0.8 cm in the mucosa. The lesion surrounding 90 of the intesFne circumference, removed 7.2 cm from the incision line and 5.3 cm from the opposite one. Microscopic descripOon : Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare G2. InltraFo carcinomatosa profunda tunicae muscularis priopriae et telae adiposae mesenterii pericolicae.Incision lines free of neoplasFc lesions. Metastases carcinomatosae in lymphonodo NO IVIII. InltraFo carcinomatosa capsulae lymphonodi.Emboliae carcinomatosae.Microscopic descripOon : Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare G2. InltraFo carcinomatosa profunda tunicae muscularis priopriae et telae adiposae mesenterii pericolicae.Incision lines free of neoplasFc lesions. Metastases carcinomatosae in lymphonodo NO IVIII. InltraFo carcinomatosa capsulae lymphonodi.Emboliae carcinomatosae.Microscopic descripOon : Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare G2. InltraFo carcinomatosa profunda tunicae muscularis priopriae et telae adiposae mesenterii pericolicae.Incision lines free of neoplasFc lesions. Metastases carcinomatosae in lymphonodo NO IVIII. InltraFo carcinomatosa capsulae lymphonodi.Emboliae carcinomatosae.Microscopic descripOon : Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare G2. InltraFo carcinomatosa profunda tunicae muscularis priopriae et telae adiposae mesenterii pericolicae.Incision lines free of neoplasFc lesions. Metastases carcinomatosae in lymphonodo NO IVIII. InltraFo carcinomatosa capsulae lymphonodi.Emboliae carcinomatosae.Microscopic descripOon : Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare G2. InltraFo carcinomatosa profunda tunicae muscularis priopriae et telae adiposae mesenterii pericolicae.Incision lines free of neoplasFc lesions. Metastases carcinomatosae in lymphonodo NO IVIII. InltraFo carcinomatosa capsulae lymphonodi.Emboliae carcinomatosae.Microscopic descripOon : Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare G2. InltraFo carcinomatosa profunda tunicae muscularis priopriae et telae adiposae mesenterii pericolicae.Incision lines free of neoplasFc lesions. Metastases carcinomatosae in lymphonodo NO IVIII. InltraFo carcinomatosa capsulae lymphonodi.Emboliae carcinomatosae.Microscopic descripOon : Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare G2. InltraFo carcinomatosa profunda tunicae muscularis priopriae et telae adiposae mesenterii pericolicae.Incision lines free of neoplasFc lesions. Metastases carcinomatosae in lymphonodo NO IVIII. InltraFo carcinomatosa capsulae lymphonodi.Emboliae carcinomatosae.Microscopic descripOon : Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare G2. InltraFo carcinomatosa profunda tunicae muscularis priopriae et telae adiposae mesenterii pericolicae.Incision lines free of neoplasFc lesions. Metastases carcinomatosae in lymphonodo NO IVIII. InltraFo carcinomatosa capsulae lymphonodi.Emboliae carcinomatosae.Microscopic descripOon : Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare G2. InltraFo carcinomatosa profunda tunicae muscularis priopriae et telae adiposae mesenterii pericolicae.Incision lines free of neoplasFc lesions. Metastases carcinomatosae in lymphonodo NO IVIII. InltraFo carcinomatosa capsulae lymphonodi.Emboliae carcinomatosae.Microscopic descripOon : Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare G2. InltraFo carcinomatosa profunda tunicae muscularis priopriae et telae adiposae mesenterii pericolicae.Incision lines free of neoplasFc lesions. Metastases carcinomatosae in lymphonodo NO IVIII. InltraFo carcinomatosa capsulae lymphonodi.Emboliae carcinomatosae.Microscopic descripOon : Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare G2. InltraFo carcinomatosa profunda tunicae muscularis priopriae et telae adiposae mesenterii pericolicae.Incision lines free of neoplasFc lesions. Metastases carcinomatosae in lymphonodo NO IVIII. InltraFo carcinomatosa capsulae lymphonodi.Emboliae carcinomatosae.Microscopic descripOon : Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare G2. InltraFo carcinomatosa profunda tunicae muscularis priopriae et telae adiposae mesenterii pericolicae.Incision lines free of neoplasFc lesions. Metastases carcinomatosae in lymphonodo NO IVIII. InltraFo carcinomatosa capsulae lymphonodi.Emboliae carcinomatosae.Microscopic descripOon : Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare G2. InltraFo carcinomatosa profunda tunicae muscularis priopriae et telae adiposae mesenterii pericolicae.Incision lines free of neoplasFc lesions. Metastases carcinomatosae in lymphonodo NO IVIII. InltraFo carcinomatosa capsulae lymphonodi.Emboliae carcinomatosae. Histopathological Diagnosis: Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare coli. Tubulopapillar adenocarcinoma of the colon. Metastases carcinomatosae in lymphonodo. Cancer metastases in the lymph nodes NO IVIII.G2, Dukes C, Astler - Coller, C2, pT3, pNl.Histopathological Diagnosis: Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare coli. Tubulopapillar adenocarcinoma of the colon. Metastases carcinomatosae in lymphonodo. Cancer metastases in the lymph nodes NO IVIII.G2, Dukes C, Astler - Coller, C2, pT3, pNl.Histopathological Diagnosis: Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare coli. Tubulopapillar adenocarcinoma of the colon. Metastases carcinomatosae in lymphonodo. Cancer metastases in the lymph nodes NO IVIII.G2, Dukes C, Astler - Coller, C2, pT3, pNl.Histopathological Diagnosis: Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare coli. Tubulopapillar adenocarcinoma of the colon. Metastases carcinomatosae in lymphonodo. Cancer metastases in the lymph nodes NO IVIII.G2, Dukes C, Astler - Coller, C2, pT3, pNl.Histopathological Diagnosis: Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare coli. Tubulopapillar adenocarcinoma of the colon. Metastases carcinomatosae in lymphonodo. Cancer metastases in the lymph nodes NO IVIII.G2, Dukes C, Astler - Coller, C2, pT3, pNl.Histopathological Diagnosis: Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare coli. Tubulopapillar adenocarcinoma of the colon. Metastases carcinomatosae in lymphonodo. Cancer metastases in the lymph nodes NO IVIII.G2, Dukes C, Astler - Coller, C2, pT3, pNl.Histopathological Diagnosis: Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare coli. Tubulopapillar adenocarcinoma of the colon. Metastases carcinomatosae in lymphonodo. Cancer metastases in the lymph nodes NO IVIII.G2, Dukes C, Astler - Coller, C2, pT3, pNl.Histopathological Diagnosis: Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare coli. Tubulopapillar adenocarcinoma of the colon. Metastases carcinomatosae in lymphonodo. Cancer metastases in the lymph nodes NO IVIII.G2, Dukes C, Astler - Coller, C2, pT3, pNl.Histopathological Diagnosis: Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare coli. Tubulopapillar adenocarcinoma of the colon. Metastases carcinomatosae in lymphonodo. Cancer metastases in the lymph nodes NO IVIII.G2, Dukes C, Astler - Coller, C2, pT3, pNl.Histopathological Diagnosis: Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare coli. Tubulopapillar adenocarcinoma of the colon. Metastases carcinomatosae in lymphonodo. Cancer metastases in the lymph nodes NO IVIII.G2, Dukes C, Astler - Coller, C2, pT3, pNl.Histopathological Diagnosis: Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare coli. Tubulopapillar adenocarcinoma of the colon. Metastases carcinomatosae in lymphonodo. Cancer metastases in the lymph nodes NO IVIII.G2, Dukes C, Astler - Coller, C2, pT3, pNl.Histopathological Diagnosis: Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare coli. Tubulopapillar adenocarcinoma of the colon. Metastases carcinomatosae in lymphonodo. Cancer metastases in the lymph nodes NO IVIII.G2, Dukes C, Astler - Coller, C2, pT3, pNl.Histopathological Diagnosis: Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare coli. Tubulopapillar adenocarcinoma of the colon. Metastases carcinomatosae in lymphonodo. Cancer metastases in the lymph nodes NO IVIII.G2, Dukes C, Astler - Coller, C2, pT3, pNl. Compliance validated by: Compliance validated by: Compliance validated by: Compliance validated by: Compliance validated by: Compliance validated by: Compliance validated by: Compliance validated by: CONTACT YOU DOCTOR WITH THIS REPORT! 
Diagnosis: In I II a moderately differentiated invasive carcinoma of the colorectal type with penetration of all parietal layers and with vascular infiltration G2, pT3, L1, V1, as well as free lymph nodes 0 of 13. Tumor classification: ICDO -DA M814 03 G2, pT3, L1, V1, pN0 0 of 13, locally R0 M classification in the context of the oncology conference
 PECIMEN Right colectomy CLINICAL NOTES PRE- OP DIAGNOSIS: Cecal cancer. GROSS DESCRIPTION Received fresh, for tissue procurement labeled right colectomy is a previously unopened, 13 cm. segment of proximal right colon with attached 10.5 cm. of distal ileum surfaced by smooth to scabrous serosa with a moderate amount of mesocolon and mesentery with multiple large palpable aberrant nodes. A 7.8 cm. appendix averaging 0.7 cm. in diameter is present. The proximal and distal margins measure 4.2 and 8.5 cm. in circumference respectively. On opening, there is a poorly defined, 9.0 x 5.5 cm. rubbery to friable tan white- pink tumor mass occupying the cecal pouch and extending up to the ileocecal valve. On sectioning, the tumor has a maximal thickness of 2.0 cm., grossly extending into the muscularis to within 0.3 cm. of the inked free radial serosal surface see blocks 2 and 3. The ileal and remaining colonic mucosa is unremarkable glistening tan pink with regular folds and the walls average 0.5 cm. in thickness. Multiple soft to rubbery tan white to pink gold tissues in keeping with lymph nodes measuring up to 4.8 cm. in greatest dimension are recovered from the attached mesocolon and mesentery. The largest node appear grossly positive. Representative sections are submitted in 16 blocks as labeled. RS16. BLOCK SUMMARY: 1 - Proximal and distal margins; 2 and 3 - tumor full thickness to inked free radial serosal surface; 4 and 5 - tumor full thickness within cecal pouch point of continuity inked red; 6 - tumor to normal; 7 - ICV; 8 - random colon; 9 - appendix; 10- 12 - six whole lymph nodes per cassette; 13 and 14 - two grossly positive lymph nodes represented per cassette; 15 and 16 - one grossly GROSS DESCRIPTION positive lymph node represented per cassette. MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION Histologic type: Invasive adenocarcinoma not otherwise specified Histologic grade: Poorly differentiated with grade 3 nuclei Primary tumor pT: Tumor invades through the muscularis propria into the pericolonic fat pT3 Proximal margin: Negative for tumor Distal margin: Negative for tumor Circumferential radial margin: Negative for tumor Distance of tumor from closest margin: 10 cm. from ileal margin proximal Vascular invasion: Prominent lymphatic space invasion is noted slide 5 Regional lymph nodes pN: Prominent lymph node metastasis is documented with metastatic tumor in 11 of 23 lymph nodes pN2b. Non- lymph node pericolonic tumor: Present with extension of tumor beyond lymph node capsules. Distant metastasis pM: Cannot evaluate pMx Other findings: An adenomatous polyp is identified adjacent to the tumor. The appendix is histologically unremarkable and the background sections of colon are histologically unremarkable. 5, 3260F DIAGNOSIS A. Colon, right ileal colectomy: Invasive poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma, tumor invades through muscularis propria into pericolonic fat pT3. Margins are negative for tumor. Lymphatic space invasion present Metastatic adenocarcinoma present in 11 of 23 lymph nodes. pN2b Extranodal tumor present. --- End Of Report --- 
IDFormatted Path Report LARGE INTESTINE TISSUE CHECKLIST Specimen type: Partial colectomy Specimen size: Not specifiedTumor site: Ascending colonTumor size: 0 x 0 x 8.5 cmTumor features: UlceratedHistologic type: AdenocarcinomaHistologic grade: Moderately differentiatedTumor extent: SubserosaLymph nodes: 012 positive for metastasis Adjacent fatty tissue 012Margins: UninvolvedEvidence of neo-adjuvant treatment: Not specifiedAdditional pathologic findings: Not specifiedComments: None Date of Procurement
Sample ID : Diagnosis: Resectate of the colon sigmoid colon with tumor-free oral and aboral resection margins and under inclusion of an ulcerated, moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma with infiltration of the perimuscular fatty tissue and without regional lymph node metastases G2, pT3 LO VO RO pNO 055.  NOS  X63 i i  S i r,1 ti d eo or . C  9, 7 413361u  UUID:28920E9A-DFF6-400-91FE-052950277AC6 lllllllllllillllllllIi llllllllllllllllIIIIIlll11111111ed 0
Diagnosis This concerns a right hemicolectomy preparation with a tubulovillous adenoma in the cecum, with mild dysplasia of the cylindrical epithelium, with peritumorous, chronic recidivated concomitant inflammation with acute inflammatory activity. There is a second tubulovillous colon mucus adenoma in the colon ascendens with mild dysplasia of the cylindrical epithelium and reactive concomitant inflammation, with tubular adenomas in the area of this second one, with a mucinous carcinoma corresponding to a mucus -forming adenocarcinoma, with moderate to slight differentiation  corresponding to histopathological differentiation grade 2 -3, with tubulovillous adenoma sections on the surface, with tumor infiltration of the colon wall layers to the tunica musc ularis, with peritumorous chronic recidivated concomitant inflammation, with moderate chronic lymphandenitis of the tumor -free local lymph nodes 013 and with tumor -free overview slices from all other preparation sections described. According to the preparation sections at hand, the spreading of the mucinous carcinoma in the colon transversum corresponds to a tumor stage of pT2, pN0, MX, R0. Tumor classification ICDO -DA M -84803 
QC PaLhologist: FINAL PATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS: Right colon, segmental resection: Tumor Characteristics: Histologic type: Adellocarcinoma, with focal mucinoLis features. Location of tumor: Right cololl. Size: 3.2 x 2.4 x 0.5 cm. Grade If applicable to tumor type: Low-grade moderaiely differentiated. Lymphovascular space invasion: 110. Perforation of visceral peritoneum: No. Presence of mesenteric deposits: 110. Depth of invasionextent of invasion: Tumor penetrates into superficial musculari s propria. Surgical Margin Status: Proima l margin: Ilegative by 8.2 CIll. Distal margin: Negative by 5.4 em. Deep radial margin: NJA, tumor does not erupt serosal surface. Lymph Node Status: Total number of lymph nodes examined : 11. Total number of lymph nodes containing metastatic carcinoma: 0011. Other: 1 Other significant findings: Tumor arises within tubular adenoma with high-grade dysplasia. 2. TNM stage: T2 NO MX. COMMEIlTS: CLiIlICAL HISTORY: Preoperative Diagnosis: ascending colon mass; high grade dysplasia Postoperative Diagnosis: SymptomsJRadiologic Findings: SPECIMENS: Right colon 1   ,  GROSS DESCRIPTION : Received in one container labeled and right colon a previously opened right colectomy specllllf;!n received for research. The terminal ileum measures 3.5 x 1.7 cm in diameter, the cecum and colon together measure 12.1 x 6.1 cm in diameter and the attached appendix measures 2.5 x 0.6 em. The specimen is covered by a moderate amount at pericolonic adipose tissue. On opening there is a 3.2 x 2.4 x 0.5 em tan firm raised mass, 5.4 em from the distal margin and 8.2 em from the proximal margin. On section the lesion hCls a solid tan cut surface and is 0.4 cm tllicl. Grossly it does not pertorate through tile waH. TI,e I ernainder of tile IUlTlen IS lined by normal appearing tan mUCosa. The appendix is grossly uninvolved by lesion After using the Reveal solution, ten lymph nodes are Identified ranging from 0.3 x 0.2 x 0.1 cm to 1.5 x 0.9 x 0.6 cm. Representative sections are submitted as follows: 1-proximal margin; 2-distal margin; 35  representalive sections of lesion; 6  representat ive appendix; 7representativc ileocecal valve; 8--one node sectioned ; 9--tllree whole nodes; 10-12-two whole CClssette. Two cassettes for research lie ,blec ,  -.-.; . ..,. , 
 Date Coll: SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT SPECIMEN A. Subtotal colectomy B. Small bowel mass C. Appendectomy CLINICAL NOTES PRE- OP DIAGNOSIS: Transverse colon cancer FROZEN SECTION DIAGNOSIS B. Serosal fibrosis, no tumor seen on, further evaluation on permanent sections. GROSS DESCRIPTION A. Received fresh in a container labeled colon is a segment of colon 23 cm long. The specimen is received open at both ends, which are arbitrarily inked blue and black. The serosal surface is tan- pink and glistening. There is abundant attached yellow adipose tissue. There is also abundant omentum present, 42 x 5 x 3 cm in greatest dimensions. The omentum is serially sectioned, and there are no focal lesions. The segment of bowel is opened. It averages 6.5 cm in circumference. 5.5 cm from the black- inked end of the specimen, there is a 5.5 x 5 x 3.8 cm tumor mass. On cut surface, this tumor grossly invades into, and apparently through, the muscularis propria, into surrounding soft tissues. Although extending near to the serosal surface, tumor does not appear to reach the serosal surface, and is not near the radial margin. The surface deep to the tumor is inked. 3.5 cm from the blue- inked margin is a separate 3.5 x 3.3 x 2.7 cm polypoid lesion. There is some black tattooing in this region. On cut surface, the polypoid lesion is exophytic, without definite gross invasion into the bowel wall. The specimen away from the lesions has a tan- pink glistening mucosa and tan wall. The adipose tissue is dissected, and multiple tan lymph nodes are identified. RS- 22, following fixation. BLOCK SUMMARY: A1,A2 - omentum; A3 - proximal and distal resection margins; A4- A7 - invasive tumor mass, with one lymph node also included in block A7; A8- A16 - entire polypoid lesion; A17- A22 - lymph nodes. B. Received fresh in a container labeled B - small bowel mass is a portion of tan tissue with mucosa along one surface, 3 x 2 cm, and 0.3 cm deep, compatible with small bowel. On the serosal surface there is a tan- white plaque-l ike area, 0.8 x 0.5 x 0.1 cm. A section is submitted for frozen section, including the plaque- like area, and the remainder of the specimen is entirely submitted for permanent sections in three additional blocks. C. Received in formalin in a container labeled appendix is a 5.5 cm long x 0.7 cm in diameter appendix. It is grossly unremarkable, with a tan- pink glistening serosal surface, wall, and tan mucosa. There are no focal lesions. AS- 1. MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION The following template summarizes the findings in this case: Histologic type: Adenocarcinoma of the colon in part A, present in the lesion submitted in blocks A4- A7. Histologic grade: Moderately differentiated Primary tumor pT: pT3. Adenocarcinoma invades through the full thickness of the muscularis propria into surrounding adipose tissue. Proximal margin: Negative Distal margin: Negative Circumferential radial margin: Negative Distance of tumor from closest margin: See gross description Vascular invasion: Not definitively identified Regional lymph nodes pN: pN1b. There is metastatic adenocarcinoma in two of thirty- three 233 lymph nodes. One of the positive lymph nodes is the lymph node immediately subjacent to the tumor submitted in block A7. Non- lymph node pericolonic tumor: Not identified Distant metastasis pM: pMX Other findings: The separate polypoid lesion in part A is a tubulovillous th focal severe dysplasia. Part A is also notable for Part B has serosal fibrosis, without tumor seen. In pa appendix is without specific diagnostic abnormalities, with luminal obliteration. Note: This case has been reviewed in Intradepartmental Consultation, with concurrence with the interpretation. 5,4,1,14 DIAGNOSIS A. Colon, subtotal excision - Moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma, invading through the full thickness of the muscularis propria and into the surrounding adipose tissue pT3, see microscopic description. - Separate tubulovillous adenoma, with focal severe dysplasia. - Margins negative for malignancy. - Metastatic adenocarcinoma in two of thirty- three 233 lymph nodes. B. Tissue, small bowel, excision - Serosal fibrosis, no tumor seen. C. Appendix, excision - Luminal obliteration, without specific diagnostic abnormalities. --- End Of Report --- 
Diagnosis This concerns a tubulovillous adenoma of the colon mucosa with mild dysplasia of the cylindrical epithelium in I. II concerns a right hemicolectomy preparation with a slightly differentiated mucinous adenocarcinoma with histopathological diffe rentiation grade G 3, with significant extracellular mucus accumulation, with chronic rec urrent inflammation, with acute inflammatory activity, with fine focal necroses, with erosion of the inner surface of the tumor, with tumor infiltration of the colon w all layers up to the pericolic fatty connective tissue, with carcinomatous lymphangi tis, with tumor -free lymph nodes 036, with moderate chronic lymphadenitis, with chronic appendicitis and with tumor -free overview slices from all other resection section s described. In relation to the section preparations examined, the spreading of tumor of the colon carcinoma corresponds to tumor stage p T 3, p N 0 036, MX, L1, R0. Tumor classification: ICDO -DA M 84803 G3 
 TCGA-A6-2679 SPECIMEN A. Left tube and ovary B. Uterus, cervix, right tube and ovary C. Right colon FROZEN SECTION DIAGNOSIS A. Ovarian serous cyst adenofibroma. GROSS DESCRIPTION A. Received fresh for frozen section, labeled left tube and ovary is a 658 gram, 12.0 x 10.0 x 8.7 em. attenuated white pink-red cystic structure, vlith an attached, fimbriated, 10.5 em. fallopian tube averaging 0.25 em. in diameter. The fallopian tube lumen is pinpoint and stellate on sectioning. On opening the cyst contains a copious amount of serous fluid. The inner lining ranges from smooth white pink to wrinkled tan white-gold. No papillations are evident. A frozen section is performed see frozen section diagnosis. identified grossly. additional blocks. No definitive residual ovarian stroma is Representative sections are submitted in six B. Received in formalin, labeled uterus, cervix, right tube with ovary is a 22 gram, 2. 8 em. superior to inferior x 2.5 em. cornu to cornu x 1.5 em. anterior to posterior symmetrical uterine corpus with attached 1.5 em. cervix and right adnexa. The serosa is smooth, tan pink-red. The 2.3 x 1.9 em. mottled white pink-red ectocervix surrounds a 0.2 x 0.1 em. os. The cervical mucosa is moderately trabecular1 tan pink vlith a 0.6 x 0.2 x 0. 2 em. soft 1hi te pink endocervical polyp anteriorly see block 1. The triangular, 1.8 x 1.0 em. uterine cavity is lined by flat white pink endometrium averaging 0.15 em. The myometrium is smooth1 pale tan-pink and averages 1.0 em. in thickness. No intramural leiomyomata are present. The cribriform tan pink-gold right ovary measures 1. 3 x 0. 8 x 0. 5 em. The stroma is pale tan vii th GROSS DESCRIPTION identifiable corpora albicantia. In addition 1 there is a single, 0.4 em. smooth lined serous fluid-filled cyst. The fimbriated tan pink right fallopian tube measures 4.3 em. in length and averages 0.3 em. in diameter with a pinpoint stellate lumen on sectioning. Representative sections are submitted in five blocks as labeled. RS-5. BLOCK SUMMARY: 1 -anterior cervix; 2 -posterior cervix; 3 - anterior endomyometrium; 4 -posterior endornyometriurn; 5 -right tube and ovary. . C. Received fresh labeled right colon is a previously tan unopened 30 em. segment of proximal right colon vlith attached 11.5 em. of distal ileum surfaced by smooth to scabrous pink serosa with a moderate amount of attached mesentery and mesocolon. An unremarkable, 4.5 ern. appendix averaging 0.6 ern. in diameter is present. The proximal and distal margins measure 3.7 and 5.7 em. in circumference respectively. On opening there is a t.-1ell circumscribed, 2. 8 x 2. 0 rubbery white-pink-red sessile ulcerated lesion located 20 em. from the distal margin. A portion of the tumor and a portion of normal mucosa are submitted for tissue tan procurement as requested. On sectioning the tumor has a maximal thickness of 0.7 em., grossly extending into the muscularis to within 0.6 em. of the inked free radial serosal surface. The ileal mucosa and uninvolved colonic mucosa are unremarkable glistening pink with regular folds and the walls average 0.5 em. in thickness. Several soft to slightly rubbery tan pink tissues in keeping with lymph nodes measuring up to 0.9 em. in greatest dimension are recovered from the attached mesocolon and mesentery. Representative sections are submitted in 13 blocks as labeled. RS-13 BLOCK SUMMARY: 1 -proximal and distal margins; 2 and 3 -tumor full thickness to inked free radial serosal surface; 4 and 5 - GROSS DESCRIPTION central tumor; 6 -tumor to normal; 7 -ICV; 8 and 9 -random colonic mucosa; 10 -appendix; 11 and 12 -whole lymph nodes; 13 - bisected largest lymph node. MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION AB. Microscopic examination performed. c. Histologic type: Invasive adenocarcinoma Histologic grade: Moderately differentiated Primary tumor pT : Tumor minimally invades the subserosa, pT3ab Proximal margin: Negative Distal margin: Negative Circumferential radial margin: Negative Distance of tumor from closest margin: 20 em from distal margin Vascular invasion: Negative Regional lymph nodes pN: All 16 lymph nodes negative for metastatic disease, 016, pNO Non-lymph node pericolonic tumor: None Distant metastasis pM : Cannot be assessed Other findings: Normal appendix 14, 4x2, 5 DIAGNOSIS A. Left tube and ovary, left salpingo-oophorectomy --Serous cystadenofibroma of ovary. Attached fallopian tube, no significant pathology. B. Uterus, cervix, right tube and ovary, total hysterectomy and right salpingo-oophorectomy --Uterus with atrophic endometrium. Cervix vdth endocervical polyp. DIAGNOSIS Attached atrophic right ovary with several inclusion cysts; right fallopian tube, no significant pathology. C. Right colon, right hemicolectomy --Moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma of the right colon, pT3. All margins are negative for tumor. All 16 regional lymph nodes are negative for metastatic disease. Appendix and portion of ileum, no significant pathology. 
aSample ID  Diagnosis: Right hernicolectomy preparation with tumor -free resection margins and an ulcerated, moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma of the ascending colon ,with infiltration of the perimuscular fatty tissue and without local lymph node metastases G2, pT3 LO VO RO pNO 034. C -o - 3 was 013 3 7 J J I 0 UUID:8159A57E-08E0 -406E-9DAf-3E26EBE81BA9 RedactedIII II I III I II I VIII I II I VIII I IIIIIIII-PR I IIIIIIIIIII I IIIIIII IIIIII III HIM IIIIIII I II I IIII 11111111 Ell II I II I II I I II II I II I II II II IIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIilllllllll anry F!nny Tum x,,, Disaepanq, InA A Gs reWncy Prier Atali6nann , Ijylor , Gual;yncluonouc Prima Gnc Ia jcrnlN:
Diagnosis diagnoses: Resected colon sample with a centrally ulcerated, moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma of the colorectal type, measuring a max of 4.8 cm in diameter, with broad infiltration of the pericolic fatty tissue and two local lymph node metastases immediately next to the tumor. Tumor -free colon resection margins. Tumor -free mesenteric resection margin. Otherwise, individual tubular adenomas of the colon mucous membrane with predominant moderate dysplasia synonym: mild intraepithelial neo plasia. The tumor stage is: pT2, pN0 027 pMX; G2, L0, V0, R0 
Diagnosis:Internal Sample IL I This is a metastasis of a poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma with histopathological grade G3 differentiation with extensive necrosis and peritumorous inflammation in I, tumor-free, vascularized fatty connective tissue with a moderate chronic inflammation and with fibrosis in II a medium-grade to poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma in the cecum and the ascending colon with histopathological grade G2-3 differentiation, with necroses, with ulcerations of the inner tumor surface, with carcinomatous lymphangitis, with carcinosis of blood vessels, with perineural carcinosis with tumor infiltration of all parietal layers extending to the subserous fatty connective tissue, with 7 regional lymph node metastases 720, with peritumorous chronic recurrent concomitant inflammation tumor-free overview sections from all designated parts of the preparation and chronic appendicitis in III According to the available section preparations, the tumor spread corresponds to a tumor stage of pT3, pN2 720 pM 1 HEP, L 1, V 1. Locally the carcinoma was completely removed. Tumor classification: ICDO-DA M-81403, G2-3 JAI -a l X ill E UUID:EDDCC4B3 -9868-4415-8742-CFOB98EACF72 TCGA-AA-A02K-01A-PRRedacted IIIIIV IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII1IIIIII III II I I III I IIIII II111111111111111111111111111111 111111111111111 HIMIII III III IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIINIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII rkerla Diarosis Df irr -.- rimary Tumor Siterr X110-:Y Prior lfalin - rnn, Hist Du : - YalSyncous .aae r. r.I Irc eJ:
WID:C9BABB5A -BRED-42A6-A9DI-6B26843A375D TCGA-5M-AAT4- 91A-PR Redacted III IIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIII 11111111 III 1 IIIIII1111111111 IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIII1111111111III IIIIIIIIIIIIII 11111I111111I1111111111U11111111111111111IIIIII111IIIIIN III Date: SPECIMEN: terminal ileum, cecum, right colon, appendix and transverse colon. PROCEDURE: Right hemicolectomy with distal ileostomy MACROSCOPY -Segment of right and transverse colons, opened along its longitudinal axis, with cecum, appendix, and terminal ileum. -Appendix shows 4.0 cm of length and 0.7 cm of diameter. -The right and transverse colons measure 22.0 cm of length and 1.5 cm of mean diameter. - A vegetating tumor with elevated infiltrative borders and central ulceration, measuring 5.0 x 4.0 cm is found in the colonic mucosa 6.5 cm from the nearest surgical margin. - Three lymph nodes are grossly identified in the 12.0 x 11.5 cm area of pericolic fat tissue. - The adjacent mucosa is pale and shows three 0.9 cm polyps each near the ileocecal valve. MICROSCOPIC EXAMINATION -Moderately differentiated tubular adenocarcinoma of the right colon. -Microscopic tumor extension: tumor invades until the fat subserosa. - Lymph-vascular invasion: present. - Surgical margins free of neoplasia. -Moderate peritumoral lymphocytic infiltrate. -Moderate stromal desmoplasia. - Extensive areas of necrosis in the tumor. -Number of lymph nodes examined: 3. -Number of lymph nodes positive for neoplasia: 0. -Adjacent intestinal mucosa with one villous adenoma with high grade epithelial dysplasia, and two polyps with low grade epithelial dysplasia. -Appendix displays no pathologic features. -Stage TNM 7th edition: pT3 pNO pMx. PATHOLOGISTS 521113 CLOn-. A Zr,j5,,21114 Cheri Diagnosis tNscre?ancY primaryTumor Site Discrepancy HIpAA Discrepancy prier Malignancy History pualJSYnrima UI Case Is circle: Reviewer initialsice eviewed:yes ti1 u.,,, n S 
C.b-a-3 P oS 8iya3 ,51 -, ka  , CIfoAJ CIS. .1 3411 Sample ID : Diagnosis  Diagnoses: Right hemicolectomy specimen with an ulcerated colon carcinoma conforming to the histological type of a poorly differentiated colorectal adenocarcinoma, located 1.5 cm aborally from Bauhins vaTve and circularly occupying the intestinal wall over a length of 8 cm. Invasive spread of tumor within all layers of the intestinal wall, extending into the mesocolic fatty tissue and as far as directly below the serosa. Appendix tumor-free and with post-inflammatory fibrosis of the wall. Oral and aboral resection margins and large omentum tumor-free. 41 regional lymph nodes tumor -free and with uncharacteristic reactive changes. Tumor stage thus pT3 pNO 041 LO VO RO; G3  UUID:8999FAB8-FBF9-405F-9E6F-81A6E2204363 TOGA-AA-A00E-01A-PR Redacted III 1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 1 1 1 1 1 1 II I I II I li l li I II I I II II II Ill III I I II I II 11111111111 lii i III 1111111111 0
Resected colon with a broad, ulcerated, moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma of colorectal type, with infiltration of the pericolic adipose tissue, lymphangiosis carcinomatosa with tumor and seven local lymph node metastases. Tumor -free colo n resection margins. Tumor -free mesenteric resection margin. The remaining mucous membrane of the colon displaying a circumscribed, ulcerous defect with remains of a tubular adenoma with moderate epithelial dysplasia, as well as a further small tubular adenoma, likewise with moderate dysplasia synonymously: mild intraepithelial neoplasia. Diagnosis: Stage of tumor: pT3, pN2 728, MX; G2, L1, V0, local R0 
 TCGA : Sample ID  Diagnosis: This is a poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma of the ascending colon with partial neuroendocrine differentiation, with a histopathological grade G3 differentiation, with extensive necroses, with substantial with peritumorous, chronic inflammation, with tumor infiltration in the layers of the colon wall as far as the pericolic fatty connective tissue, with carcinomatous lymphangiosis, with a regional lymph node metastasis 12 1, tumor- free overview sections from the resection margins and from the attached reticular fatty tissue, as well as chronic appendicitis. According to these prepared sections, the tumor spread of the colon carcinoma corresponds to the tumor stage pT3, pN2, MX, L 1 Cb-G-3 QCNos fl Yo3 S 1. l 4 lL G ;C r11 d a- L, 33 oh  UUID:8547AC20-9066-4528-883D-AF6618445A79 TCGA-AA-Ae1P-e1A-PR Redacted III II II IIII I II I VIIII11I VIII I IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 11111111 VIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIII IIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIII111111IIIIIIIIIIIIIIII111111IIII1IIIII11I111III 0
 page 1  1 page 1  1 page 1  1 page 1  1 page 1  1 page 1  1 Department of Cancer Pathology Department of Cancer Pathology Department of Cancer Pathology Department of Cancer Pathology Department of Cancer Pathology Department of Cancer Pathology Department of Cancer Pathology Department of Cancer Pathology Department of Cancer Pathology Department of Cancer Pathology Department of Cancer Pathology Department of Cancer Pathology original ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon Internal invoice No.Internal invoice No.Internal invoice No.Internal invoice No. Cost of diagnosPc procedureCost of diagnosPc procedureCost of diagnosPc procedureCost of diagnosPc procedureCost of diagnosPc procedureCost of diagnosPc procedureCost of diagnosPc procedure ExaminaFon No.: ExaminaFon No.: PaPent: XXX PaPent: XXX PESEL: XXX PESEL: XXX PESEL: XXX PESEL: XXX Age: Gender : Gender : Gender : Gender : Gender : Gender : Material: 1. MulFple organ resecFon  colon Material: 1. MulFple organ resecFon  colon Material: 1. MulFple organ resecFon  colon Material: 1. MulFple organ resecFon  colon Material: 1. MulFple organ resecFon  colon Material: 1. MulFple organ resecFon  colon Material: 1. MulFple organ resecFon  colon Material: 1. MulFple organ resecFon  colon Material: 1. MulFple organ resecFon  colon Material: 1. MulFple organ resecFon  colon Material: 1. MulFple organ resecFon  colon Material: 1. MulFple organ resecFon  colon Material: 1. MulFple organ resecFon  colon Unit in charge : Unit in charge : Unit in charge : Unit in charge : Unit in charge : Unit in charge : Unit in charge : Unit in charge : Unit in charge : Unit in charge : Unit in charge : Unit in charge : Unit in charge : Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Material collected Material collected Material collected Material received on: Material received on: Material received on: Material received on: Material received on: Expected Pme of examinaPon: Expected Pme of examinaPon: Expected Pme of examinaPon: Expected Pme of examinaPon: Expected Pme of examinaPon: Expected Pme of examinaPon: Expected Pme of examinaPon: Expected Pme of examinaPon: Expected Pme of examinaPon: Expected Pme of examinaPon: Expected Pme of examinaPon: Expected Pme of examinaPon: Expected Pme of examinaPon: Clinical diagnosis: right side of the colon along with the transverse, descending and sigmoid colons two tumours, one stained with blue dye on the right side of the transverse colon, the other one  tumour of the distal part of the sigmoid colon, polyps? in the splenic exureClinical diagnosis: right side of the colon along with the transverse, descending and sigmoid colons two tumours, one stained with blue dye on the right side of the transverse colon, the other one  tumour of the distal part of the sigmoid colon, polyps? in the splenic exureClinical diagnosis: right side of the colon along with the transverse, descending and sigmoid colons two tumours, one stained with blue dye on the right side of the transverse colon, the other one  tumour of the distal part of the sigmoid colon, polyps? in the splenic exureClinical diagnosis: right side of the colon along with the transverse, descending and sigmoid colons two tumours, one stained with blue dye on the right side of the transverse colon, the other one  tumour of the distal part of the sigmoid colon, polyps? in the splenic exureClinical diagnosis: right side of the colon along with the transverse, descending and sigmoid colons two tumours, one stained with blue dye on the right side of the transverse colon, the other one  tumour of the distal part of the sigmoid colon, polyps? in the splenic exureClinical diagnosis: right side of the colon along with the transverse, descending and sigmoid colons two tumours, one stained with blue dye on the right side of the transverse colon, the other one  tumour of the distal part of the sigmoid colon, polyps? in the splenic exureClinical diagnosis: right side of the colon along with the transverse, descending and sigmoid colons two tumours, one stained with blue dye on the right side of the transverse colon, the other one  tumour of the distal part of the sigmoid colon, polyps? in the splenic exureClinical diagnosis: right side of the colon along with the transverse, descending and sigmoid colons two tumours, one stained with blue dye on the right side of the transverse colon, the other one  tumour of the distal part of the sigmoid colon, polyps? in the splenic exureClinical diagnosis: right side of the colon along with the transverse, descending and sigmoid colons two tumours, one stained with blue dye on the right side of the transverse colon, the other one  tumour of the distal part of the sigmoid colon, polyps? in the splenic exureClinical diagnosis: right side of the colon along with the transverse, descending and sigmoid colons two tumours, one stained with blue dye on the right side of the transverse colon, the other one  tumour of the distal part of the sigmoid colon, polyps? in the splenic exureClinical diagnosis: right side of the colon along with the transverse, descending and sigmoid colons two tumours, one stained with blue dye on the right side of the transverse colon, the other one  tumour of the distal part of the sigmoid colon, polyps? in the splenic exureClinical diagnosis: right side of the colon along with the transverse, descending and sigmoid colons two tumours, one stained with blue dye on the right side of the transverse colon, the other one  tumour of the distal part of the sigmoid colon, polyps? in the splenic exureClinical diagnosis: right side of the colon along with the transverse, descending and sigmoid colons two tumours, one stained with blue dye on the right side of the transverse colon, the other one  tumour of the distal part of the sigmoid colon, polyps? in the splenic exure ExaminaPon performed on: ExaminaPon performed on: ExaminaPon performed on: ExaminaPon performed on: ExaminaPon performed on: ExaminaPon performed on: ExaminaPon performed on: ExaminaPon performed on: ExaminaPon performed on: Macroscopic descripPon : An 82 cm length of the large intesFne with periintesFnal Fssue sized 85 x 9 x 3.5 cm, a 37 cm segment of the small intesFne, a 6.5 cm appendix and the omentum sized 30 x 13 x 3 cm . An ulceraFon sized 2 x 1.9 x 0.3 cm found in the mucosa. The lesion surrounds 20 of the intesFne circumference and is located 18.9 cm away from the proximal excision, 6.4 cm from the distal excision line, and 15.8 cm away from the Bauhins valve.AddiFonally, tumour sized 2.4 x 2.2 x 0.8 cm surrounding approx. 40 of the circumference located 69.8 cm from the proximal boundary and 8.8 cm from the distal one. The distance between the tumours is 49.3 cm.Macroscopic descripPon : An 82 cm length of the large intesFne with periintesFnal Fssue sized 85 x 9 x 3.5 cm, a 37 cm segment of the small intesFne, a 6.5 cm appendix and the omentum sized 30 x 13 x 3 cm . An ulceraFon sized 2 x 1.9 x 0.3 cm found in the mucosa. The lesion surrounds 20 of the intesFne circumference and is located 18.9 cm away from the proximal excision, 6.4 cm from the distal excision line, and 15.8 cm away from the Bauhins valve.AddiFonally, tumour sized 2.4 x 2.2 x 0.8 cm surrounding approx. 40 of the circumference located 69.8 cm from the proximal boundary and 8.8 cm from the distal one. The distance between the tumours is 49.3 cm.Macroscopic descripPon : An 82 cm length of the large intesFne with periintesFnal Fssue sized 85 x 9 x 3.5 cm, a 37 cm segment of the small intesFne, a 6.5 cm appendix and the omentum sized 30 x 13 x 3 cm . An ulceraFon sized 2 x 1.9 x 0.3 cm found in the mucosa. The lesion surrounds 20 of the intesFne circumference and is located 18.9 cm away from the proximal excision, 6.4 cm from the distal excision line, and 15.8 cm away from the Bauhins valve.AddiFonally, tumour sized 2.4 x 2.2 x 0.8 cm surrounding approx. 40 of the circumference located 69.8 cm from the proximal boundary and 8.8 cm from the distal one. The distance between the tumours is 49.3 cm.Macroscopic descripPon : An 82 cm length of the large intesFne with periintesFnal Fssue sized 85 x 9 x 3.5 cm, a 37 cm segment of the small intesFne, a 6.5 cm appendix and the omentum sized 30 x 13 x 3 cm . An ulceraFon sized 2 x 1.9 x 0.3 cm found in the mucosa. The lesion surrounds 20 of the intesFne circumference and is located 18.9 cm away from the proximal excision, 6.4 cm from the distal excision line, and 15.8 cm away from the Bauhins valve.AddiFonally, tumour sized 2.4 x 2.2 x 0.8 cm surrounding approx. 40 of the circumference located 69.8 cm from the proximal boundary and 8.8 cm from the distal one. The distance between the tumours is 49.3 cm.Macroscopic descripPon : An 82 cm length of the large intesFne with periintesFnal Fssue sized 85 x 9 x 3.5 cm, a 37 cm segment of the small intesFne, a 6.5 cm appendix and the omentum sized 30 x 13 x 3 cm . An ulceraFon sized 2 x 1.9 x 0.3 cm found in the mucosa. The lesion surrounds 20 of the intesFne circumference and is located 18.9 cm away from the proximal excision, 6.4 cm from the distal excision line, and 15.8 cm away from the Bauhins valve.AddiFonally, tumour sized 2.4 x 2.2 x 0.8 cm surrounding approx. 40 of the circumference located 69.8 cm from the proximal boundary and 8.8 cm from the distal one. The distance between the tumours is 49.3 cm.Macroscopic descripPon : An 82 cm length of the large intesFne with periintesFnal Fssue sized 85 x 9 x 3.5 cm, a 37 cm segment of the small intesFne, a 6.5 cm appendix and the omentum sized 30 x 13 x 3 cm . An ulceraFon sized 2 x 1.9 x 0.3 cm found in the mucosa. The lesion surrounds 20 of the intesFne circumference and is located 18.9 cm away from the proximal excision, 6.4 cm from the distal excision line, and 15.8 cm away from the Bauhins valve.AddiFonally, tumour sized 2.4 x 2.2 x 0.8 cm surrounding approx. 40 of the circumference located 69.8 cm from the proximal boundary and 8.8 cm from the distal one. The distance between the tumours is 49.3 cm.Macroscopic descripPon : An 82 cm length of the large intesFne with periintesFnal Fssue sized 85 x 9 x 3.5 cm, a 37 cm segment of the small intesFne, a 6.5 cm appendix and the omentum sized 30 x 13 x 3 cm . An ulceraFon sized 2 x 1.9 x 0.3 cm found in the mucosa. The lesion surrounds 20 of the intesFne circumference and is located 18.9 cm away from the proximal excision, 6.4 cm from the distal excision line, and 15.8 cm away from the Bauhins valve.AddiFonally, tumour sized 2.4 x 2.2 x 0.8 cm surrounding approx. 40 of the circumference located 69.8 cm from the proximal boundary and 8.8 cm from the distal one. The distance between the tumours is 49.3 cm.Macroscopic descripPon : An 82 cm length of the large intesFne with periintesFnal Fssue sized 85 x 9 x 3.5 cm, a 37 cm segment of the small intesFne, a 6.5 cm appendix and the omentum sized 30 x 13 x 3 cm . An ulceraFon sized 2 x 1.9 x 0.3 cm found in the mucosa. The lesion surrounds 20 of the intesFne circumference and is located 18.9 cm away from the proximal excision, 6.4 cm from the distal excision line, and 15.8 cm away from the Bauhins valve.AddiFonally, tumour sized 2.4 x 2.2 x 0.8 cm surrounding approx. 40 of the circumference located 69.8 cm from the proximal boundary and 8.8 cm from the distal one. The distance between the tumours is 49.3 cm.Macroscopic descripPon : An 82 cm length of the large intesFne with periintesFnal Fssue sized 85 x 9 x 3.5 cm, a 37 cm segment of the small intesFne, a 6.5 cm appendix and the omentum sized 30 x 13 x 3 cm . An ulceraFon sized 2 x 1.9 x 0.3 cm found in the mucosa. The lesion surrounds 20 of the intesFne circumference and is located 18.9 cm away from the proximal excision, 6.4 cm from the distal excision line, and 15.8 cm away from the Bauhins valve.AddiFonally, tumour sized 2.4 x 2.2 x 0.8 cm surrounding approx. 40 of the circumference located 69.8 cm from the proximal boundary and 8.8 cm from the distal one. The distance between the tumours is 49.3 cm.Macroscopic descripPon : An 82 cm length of the large intesFne with periintesFnal Fssue sized 85 x 9 x 3.5 cm, a 37 cm segment of the small intesFne, a 6.5 cm appendix and the omentum sized 30 x 13 x 3 cm . An ulceraFon sized 2 x 1.9 x 0.3 cm found in the mucosa. The lesion surrounds 20 of the intesFne circumference and is located 18.9 cm away from the proximal excision, 6.4 cm from the distal excision line, and 15.8 cm away from the Bauhins valve.AddiFonally, tumour sized 2.4 x 2.2 x 0.8 cm surrounding approx. 40 of the circumference located 69.8 cm from the proximal boundary and 8.8 cm from the distal one. The distance between the tumours is 49.3 cm.Macroscopic descripPon : An 82 cm length of the large intesFne with periintesFnal Fssue sized 85 x 9 x 3.5 cm, a 37 cm segment of the small intesFne, a 6.5 cm appendix and the omentum sized 30 x 13 x 3 cm . An ulceraFon sized 2 x 1.9 x 0.3 cm found in the mucosa. The lesion surrounds 20 of the intesFne circumference and is located 18.9 cm away from the proximal excision, 6.4 cm from the distal excision line, and 15.8 cm away from the Bauhins valve.AddiFonally, tumour sized 2.4 x 2.2 x 0.8 cm surrounding approx. 40 of the circumference located 69.8 cm from the proximal boundary and 8.8 cm from the distal one. The distance between the tumours is 49.3 cm.Macroscopic descripPon : An 82 cm length of the large intesFne with periintesFnal Fssue sized 85 x 9 x 3.5 cm, a 37 cm segment of the small intesFne, a 6.5 cm appendix and the omentum sized 30 x 13 x 3 cm . An ulceraFon sized 2 x 1.9 x 0.3 cm found in the mucosa. The lesion surrounds 20 of the intesFne circumference and is located 18.9 cm away from the proximal excision, 6.4 cm from the distal excision line, and 15.8 cm away from the Bauhins valve.AddiFonally, tumour sized 2.4 x 2.2 x 0.8 cm surrounding approx. 40 of the circumference located 69.8 cm from the proximal boundary and 8.8 cm from the distal one. The distance between the tumours is 49.3 cm.Macroscopic descripPon : An 82 cm length of the large intesFne with periintesFnal Fssue sized 85 x 9 x 3.5 cm, a 37 cm segment of the small intesFne, a 6.5 cm appendix and the omentum sized 30 x 13 x 3 cm . An ulceraFon sized 2 x 1.9 x 0.3 cm found in the mucosa. The lesion surrounds 20 of the intesFne circumference and is located 18.9 cm away from the proximal excision, 6.4 cm from the distal excision line, and 15.8 cm away from the Bauhins valve.AddiFonally, tumour sized 2.4 x 2.2 x 0.8 cm surrounding approx. 40 of the circumference located 69.8 cm from the proximal boundary and 8.8 cm from the distal one. The distance between the tumours is 49.3 cm. Microscopic descripPon : Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare bifocale G2. InltraFo carcinomatosa telae adpisae pericolicae. Excision lines clear of neoplasFc inltraFon. Outside the tumour: Adenoma tubulopapillare cum dysplasia gradus minoris. LymphonoduliFs reacFva NO V.Microscopic descripPon : Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare bifocale G2. InltraFo carcinomatosa telae adpisae pericolicae. Excision lines clear of neoplasFc inltraFon. Outside the tumour: Adenoma tubulopapillare cum dysplasia gradus minoris. LymphonoduliFs reacFva NO V.Microscopic descripPon : Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare bifocale G2. InltraFo carcinomatosa telae adpisae pericolicae. Excision lines clear of neoplasFc inltraFon. Outside the tumour: Adenoma tubulopapillare cum dysplasia gradus minoris. LymphonoduliFs reacFva NO V.Microscopic descripPon : Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare bifocale G2. InltraFo carcinomatosa telae adpisae pericolicae. Excision lines clear of neoplasFc inltraFon. Outside the tumour: Adenoma tubulopapillare cum dysplasia gradus minoris. LymphonoduliFs reacFva NO V.Microscopic descripPon : Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare bifocale G2. InltraFo carcinomatosa telae adpisae pericolicae. Excision lines clear of neoplasFc inltraFon. Outside the tumour: Adenoma tubulopapillare cum dysplasia gradus minoris. LymphonoduliFs reacFva NO V.Microscopic descripPon : Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare bifocale G2. InltraFo carcinomatosa telae adpisae pericolicae. Excision lines clear of neoplasFc inltraFon. Outside the tumour: Adenoma tubulopapillare cum dysplasia gradus minoris. LymphonoduliFs reacFva NO V.Microscopic descripPon : Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare bifocale G2. InltraFo carcinomatosa telae adpisae pericolicae. Excision lines clear of neoplasFc inltraFon. Outside the tumour: Adenoma tubulopapillare cum dysplasia gradus minoris. LymphonoduliFs reacFva NO V.Microscopic descripPon : Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare bifocale G2. InltraFo carcinomatosa telae adpisae pericolicae. Excision lines clear of neoplasFc inltraFon. Outside the tumour: Adenoma tubulopapillare cum dysplasia gradus minoris. LymphonoduliFs reacFva NO V.Microscopic descripPon : Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare bifocale G2. InltraFo carcinomatosa telae adpisae pericolicae. Excision lines clear of neoplasFc inltraFon. Outside the tumour: Adenoma tubulopapillare cum dysplasia gradus minoris. LymphonoduliFs reacFva NO V.Microscopic descripPon : Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare bifocale G2. InltraFo carcinomatosa telae adpisae pericolicae. Excision lines clear of neoplasFc inltraFon. Outside the tumour: Adenoma tubulopapillare cum dysplasia gradus minoris. LymphonoduliFs reacFva NO V.Microscopic descripPon : Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare bifocale G2. InltraFo carcinomatosa telae adpisae pericolicae. Excision lines clear of neoplasFc inltraFon. Outside the tumour: Adenoma tubulopapillare cum dysplasia gradus minoris. LymphonoduliFs reacFva NO V.Microscopic descripPon : Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare bifocale G2. InltraFo carcinomatosa telae adpisae pericolicae. Excision lines clear of neoplasFc inltraFon. Outside the tumour: Adenoma tubulopapillare cum dysplasia gradus minoris. LymphonoduliFs reacFva NO V.Microscopic descripPon : Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare bifocale G2. InltraFo carcinomatosa telae adpisae pericolicae. Excision lines clear of neoplasFc inltraFon. Outside the tumour: Adenoma tubulopapillare cum dysplasia gradus minoris. LymphonoduliFs reacFva NO V. Histopathological diagnosis Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare bifocale coli. Tubulopapillar bifocal adenocarcinoma of the colon G2, Dukes B, Astler - Coller B2, pT3, pNO.Histopathological diagnosis Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare bifocale coli. Tubulopapillar bifocal adenocarcinoma of the colon G2, Dukes B, Astler - Coller B2, pT3, pNO.Histopathological diagnosis Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare bifocale coli. Tubulopapillar bifocal adenocarcinoma of the colon G2, Dukes B, Astler - Coller B2, pT3, pNO.Histopathological diagnosis Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare bifocale coli. Tubulopapillar bifocal adenocarcinoma of the colon G2, Dukes B, Astler - Coller B2, pT3, pNO.Histopathological diagnosis Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare bifocale coli. Tubulopapillar bifocal adenocarcinoma of the colon G2, Dukes B, Astler - Coller B2, pT3, pNO.Histopathological diagnosis Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare bifocale coli. Tubulopapillar bifocal adenocarcinoma of the colon G2, Dukes B, Astler - Coller B2, pT3, pNO.Histopathological diagnosis Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare bifocale coli. Tubulopapillar bifocal adenocarcinoma of the colon G2, Dukes B, Astler - Coller B2, pT3, pNO.Histopathological diagnosis Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare bifocale coli. Tubulopapillar bifocal adenocarcinoma of the colon G2, Dukes B, Astler - Coller B2, pT3, pNO.Histopathological diagnosis Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare bifocale coli. Tubulopapillar bifocal adenocarcinoma of the colon G2, Dukes B, Astler - Coller B2, pT3, pNO.Histopathological diagnosis Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare bifocale coli. Tubulopapillar bifocal adenocarcinoma of the colon G2, Dukes B, Astler - Coller B2, pT3, pNO.Histopathological diagnosis Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare bifocale coli. Tubulopapillar bifocal adenocarcinoma of the colon G2, Dukes B, Astler - Coller B2, pT3, pNO.Histopathological diagnosis Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare bifocale coli. Tubulopapillar bifocal adenocarcinoma of the colon G2, Dukes B, Astler - Coller B2, pT3, pNO.Histopathological diagnosis Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare bifocale coli. Tubulopapillar bifocal adenocarcinoma of the colon G2, Dukes B, Astler - Coller B2, pT3, pNO. Compliance validated by: Compliance validated by: Compliance validated by: Compliance validated by: Compliance validated by: Compliance validated by: Compliance validated by: Compliance validated by: ExaminaPon performed on: Supplementary informaPon AddiFonally, ve reacFve lymph nodes found in the collected specimens pNO. Compliance validated by: Compliance validated by: CONTACT YOUR DOCTOR WITH THIS REPORT! 
Surg al Pathology Histopathological Examination Pre-Op Diagnosis Order Physician Specimens Frozen Diagnosis Report ion GROSS EXAMINATION: The specimen is received fresh in a cant ner labeled with the name of the patient and identified as colon segment, right colon. Length of Terminal Ileum: 10.5 cm Circumference of Terminal Ileum: 4.9 cm Length of Colon: 36.5 cm Circumference of Colon: 9 cm Margins: Stapled Serosa: A 2.5 x 1.8 cm puckered area in the ascending colon located 12 cm from the distal margin. Mass 1: Size: 6.4 x 4.5 x 1.2 cm Type: Infiltrative with raised edges Region: Cecum Distance from proximal margin: 10.5 cm Circumference: 50 Depth of Invasion: 0.6 cm Distance from Radial Margin: 2.2 cm Mass 2: Size: 7.8 x 5 x 1.1 cm Type: Infiltrative with raised edges Region: Ascending colon Distance from distal margin: 9.7 cm Circumference: 90 Depth of Invasion: 0.3 cm Distance from Radial Margin: 0.9 cm There is a 1.2 cm pink polyp located 1.7 cm distal to the cecal mass and a 0.4 cm tan polyp located 1.6 cm from the ascending mass. Appendix: Absent. Block Summary: 1, cecal mass and radial margin; 2-4, THIS CONFIDENTIAL AND PRIVILEGED DOCUMENTINFORMATION IS PROTECTED BY FEDERAL AND STATE LAW. UNAUTHORIZED DISCLOSURE, DISSEMINATION OR DUPLICATION IS PROHIBITED Path ::::: Visit : Page 1 of 3 ,..., ...., dd . 1 . fl . d . a ltlona sectlons 0 ceca mass; 5, ascen lng mass and radial margin; 6, ascending mass and serosa black ink; 7 8, additional sections of ascending maSSi 9, proximal polyp; 10, distal polyp; 11, rgin; 12, distal .... II  . ... margin; 13-15, lymph nodes. DIAGNOSIS BASED ON GROSS AND MICROSCOPIC EXAMINATION: Extended right hemicolectomy 36.5 cm: -Colonic adenocarcinoma, 6.4 cm, high-grade, with extension through the muscularis propria pT3 involving the cecum see summary template. -Colonic adenocarcinoma, 7.8 cm, low-grade, with extension through the muscularis propria pT3 involvin the ascending colon at the hepatic flexuresee summary temp . -Lymphovascular invasion identified. Tubular adenomas x 2. -Margins of resection are free of carcinoma. T-59600 M-81403 154.1 P3-44090 COLON AND RECTUM: Resection SPECIMEN: Terminal ileum, cecum, and ascending colon. PROCEDURE: Right hemicolectomy. SPECIMEN LENGTH: Terminal ileum: 4.9 cm Colon: 36.5 cm TUMOR SITE: Cecum and hepatic flexure. TUMOR SIZE: 6.4 cm and 7.8 cm MACROSCOPIC TUMOR PERFORATION: Not identified. HISTOLOGIC TYPE: Adenocarcinoma. HISTOLOGIC GRADE: High-grade poorly differentiated in cecum Low-grade well to moderately differentiated at hepatic flexure. HISTOLOGIC FEATURES SUGGESTIVE OF MICROSATELLITE INSTABILITY: Intratumoral lymphocytic response: Mild to moderate. Peritumoral lymphocytic response: Mild to moderate. Tumor subtype and differentiation: High histologic grade poorly differentiated. MICROSCOPIC TUMOR EXTENSION: Tumor invades through the muscularis propria into subserosal adipose tissue. MARGINS: Proximal, distal, and radial margins uninvolved by invasive carcinoma. Closest margin: 0.9 cm radial margin at hepatic flexure mass. TREATMENT EFFECT: No prior treatment. LYMPH-VASCULAR INVASION: Present. PERINEURAL INVASION: Not identified. TUMOR DEPOSITS: Not identified. PATHOLOGIC STAGING pTNM: TNM Descriptors: m multiple primary tumors primary Tumor pT: pT3 Tumor invades through the muscularis propria into peri colorectal tissues. Regional Lymph Nodes pN: pN1b Metastases in 2-3 regional lymph nodes. THIS CONFIDENTIAL AND PRIVILEGED DOCUMENTINFORMATION IS PROTECTED BY FEDERAL AND STATE LAW. UNAUTHORIZED DISCLOSURE, DISSEMINATION OR DUPLICATION IS PROHIBITED .-Path : Page 2 of 3 Visit : ....  ..  Number examined: 18 Number involved: 2 Distant Metastasis pM: NA ADDITIONAL PATHOLOGIC FINDINGS: Adenomas, x 2. pTNM SUMMARY: pT3N1b both lesions COMMENT: Intradepartmental consultation obtained. THIS CONFIDENTIAL AND PRIVILEGED DOCUMENTINFORMATION IS PROTECTED BY FEDERAL AND STATE LAW. UNAUTHORIZED DISCLOSURE, DISSEMINATION OR DUPLICATION IS PROHIBITED 31 Path : Page 3 or 3 Visit : 
I YOIP13 J O U 0-iim d Con1 L  8.7  33,U 0 C:Iterla Dia nods Disorep.nt? Primary Tutor s Site Discrepancy HIPM Discrepancy Prior M.GEn ..ncc Histo.yTCGA : Sample ID : Diagnosis: Resected colon sigma with tumor-free oral and aboral resection margins, with two small tubular adenomas and mild dysplasia synonymous: mild intraepithelial neoplasia, with a small leiomyoma of the lamina muscularis mucosa, as well as an ulcerated, moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma with infiltration of the perimuscular fatty tissue and with two local lymph node metastases G2, pT3, L1, VO, RO pNl 230. UUID:6D0B0431-B2C4-41BE -9270-654790FA3170 1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111Redact ed 11111111111111111111111111111111111iii11111111111 iiiiiIIiIlJII IIHIIIIII1 iii 11111111111111111 J
 SPECIMENS: A. RECTUM, SIGMOID COLON AND ANUS B. COLON SPECIMENS: A. RECTUM, SIGMOID COLON AND ANUS B. COLON GROSS DESCRIPTION: A. RECTUM, SIGMOID COLON AND ANUS Received fresh and labeled with the patients name A - rectum, sigmoid colon and anus, is a closed segment of colon including anus and rectum measuring 32.0 cm in length with the proximal circumference of 4.6 and distal of 7.1 cm. The serosa is unremarkable. There is a fungating polypoid mass with serpentine borders measuring 2.3 cm in length with a width of 2.4 cm located 0.5 cm from the dentate line and 4.9 cm from the anal resection margin. The epicenter of the tumor is 1.8 cm from the dentate line. It is approximately 24.0 cm from the proximal margin. In the lower portion of the rectum are additional polyps ranging from 0.1 to 0.3 cm. In the mid portion of the specimen are polyps ranging from 0.1 to 0.3 and in the proximal region diverticuli are seen. Sections of mass and normal appearing mucosa are submitted for procurement. Representative sections are submitted as follows: A1: Proximal margin A2: Distal margin A3-A6: Sections of mass and deep margin A7: Polyps proximal to mass A8-A9: Polyps from mid portion of specimen to proximal region A10: Diverticula A11: Normal appearing m ucosa A12: Proximal, 5 possible lymph nodes A13: Proximal, 1 bisected lymph node A14-A17: Distal, 6 possible lymph nodes each A18-A21: Distal, 2 bisected lymph nodes each B. COLON Received fresh and labeled with the patients name B - colon, is a closed segment of colon including terminal ileum, cecum, and right colon measuring approximately 60.0 cm in length. The serosa is unremarkable. There is attached vermiform appendix measuring 8.2 cm in length with a diameter of 0.9 cm. The specimen is opened and the portion of terminal ileum is 6.9 cm in length with an internal circumference of 3.9 cm. Within the cecum is a firm indurated polypoid lesion with serpentine borders measuring 5.8 x 5.2 x approximately 0.9 cm in depth. It is located adjacent to the ileocecal valve and 6.5 cm from the proximal margin. It extends through the muscularis propria and areas of necrosis and hemorrhage are seen. Throughout the colon there are polyps ranging from 0.2 to 0.6 cm. Within the distal portion of the specimen there are diverticuli. Sections of mass and normal mucosa are procured. Representative sections are submitted as follows: B1: Proximal margin B2: Distal margin B3-B8: Sections of mass B9: Polyps proximal to mass B10-B11: Polyps distal to mass B12: Diverticuli B13: Normal appearing mucosa and appendix B14-B17: proximal, 6 possible lymph nodes each B18: proximal, 1 lymph node B19-B23: proximal, 2 bisected possible lymph nodes each B24-B30: distal, 6 possible lymph nodes each B31-B32: distal, 1 possible lymph node each DIAGNOSIS: A. ANUS, RECTUM, SIGMOID, RESECTION: - INVASIVE, MODERATELY DIFFERENTIATED, ADENOCARCINOMA, INVOLVING MUSCULARIS PROPRIA, PRESENT 1.8 CM FROM THE DENTATE LINE, MEASURING 2.4 CM - SURGICAL RESECTION MARGINS ARE NEG ATIVE FOR TUMOR - METASTATIC CARCINOMA TO FOURTEEN OF FORTY -THREE LYMPH NODES 1443 LARGEST MEASURING 0.5 CM WITH EXTRANODAL EXTENSION - MULTIPLE HYPERPLASTIC POLYPS AND A DIVERTICULUM - SEE SYNOPTIC REPORT AND SEE NOTE. B. RIGHT COLON AND TERMI NAL ILEUM, RESECTION: - INVASIVE, MODERATELY DIFFERENTIATED ADENOCARCINOMA WITH NECROSIS, INVOLVING SUBSEROSA, PRESENT IN THE CECUM, MEASURING 5.8 CM - SURGICAL RESECTION MARGINS ARE NEGATIVE FOR TUMOR - METASTATIC CARCINOMA TO ONE OF SIXTY -SIX LYMPH NODES 166, MEASURING 1.0 MM - APPENDIX AND ILEUM, NO SPECIFIC PATHOLOGIC CHANGES - SEE SYNOPTIC REPORT AND SEE NOTE Note: Immunohistochemistry for mismatched repair proteins and MSI testing have been ordered on both tumors and addendum report to fol low. SYNOPTIC REPORT - ANUS Specimens Involved Specimens: A: RECTUM, SIGMOID COLON AND ANUS Specimen Type: Abdominoperineal resection Tumor Site: Unspecified Distance from dentate line: 1.8cm Tumor Size: Greatest dimension: 2.4cm Additional dimensions: 2.3cm Tumor Configuration: Polypoid WHO CLASSIFICATION Carcinoma Adenocarcinoma 81403 Histologic Grade: G2: Moderately differentiated Extent of Invasion: Confined to the anus Margins: Proximal Margin: Uninvolved by invasive carcinoma Distal Margin: Uninv olved by invasive carcinoma Radial Margin: Uninvolved by invasive carcinoma Distance of invasive carcinoma from closest margin: 0.7cm Angiolymphatic Invasion: Absent Perinueural Invasion: Present Carcinoma In Situ: Absent Additional Pathologic Findings: Hyperplastic polyps, diverticulum Lymph Nodes: Total Positive 14  43 Perirectal Positive 14  43 Pathological Staging pTNM: pT 2 N 1 M X SYNOPTIC REPORT - COLON  RECTUM Specimens Involved Specimens: B: COLON Specimen Type: Right hemicolectomy Tumor Si te: Cecum Tumor Configuration: Exophytic polypoid Tumor size: 5.8cm Additional dimensions 5.2cm x 0.9cm WHO Classification Adenocarcinoma 81403 Histologic Grade: G2: Moderately differentiated Extent of Invasion: Subserosa Margins: Margins uninvolved by invasive carcinoma Proximal, Distal, Radial Distance of invasive carcinoma from closest margin: 0.8cm Margin: Radial VenousLymphatic Invasion: Absent Perineural Invasion: Absent Additional Pathologic Findings: None identified Extent of Resection: R0: Complete resection with grossly and microscopically negative margins Lymph Nodes: Positive 1  66 Extranodal extension: Absent Implants: Absent Pathological Staging pTNM: pT 3 N 1 M X CLINICAL HISTORY: None given PRE-OPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: Colon ca ADDENDUM: ANALYSIS OF MISMATCH REPAIR PROTEIN EXPRESSION SUMMARY OF IMMUNOHISTOCHEMISTRYSPECIAL STAINS Material: Block A6 Population: Tumor Cells StainMarker: Result: Comment: MLH1 Positive MSH2 Positive MSH6 Positive PMS2 Posi tive Material: Block B7 Population: Tumor Cells StainMarker: Result: Comment: MLH1 Positive MSH2 Positive MSH6 Positive PMS2 Positive The interpretation of the above immunohistochemistry stain or stains is guided by published results in the medical literature, provided package information from the manufacturer and by internal review of staining performance and assay validation within the Immunohistochemistry Laboratory of the. The use of one or more reagents in the above tests is regulated as an analyte specific reagent ASR. These tests were developed and their performance characteristic determined by the Department of Pathology Laboratory at. They have not been cleared or approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. The FDA has determined that such clearance or approval is not necessary. INTERPRETATION: No abnormalities in mismatch repair protein expression identified. Expression of MLH1, MSH2, MSH6, and PMS2 in the tumor was evaluated by immunohistochemistry. Peritumoral lymphocytes and normal glands serve as internal positive controls expressing MLH1, MSH2, MSH6, and PMS2. Testing for Microsatellite Instability has been ordered. The results will be issued in a separate report. 
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY Surgical Pathology Report Diagnosis: A: Omentum, mass, excision - Metastatic adenocarcinoma, consistent with colonic primary B: Terminal ileum, appendix and right colon, right hemicolectomy Tumor Histologic Type: Invasive moder ately differentiated colorectal adenocarcinoma Histologic Grade: 2 Tumor Location: Right colon Depth of Invasion: Through muscularis propria into the subserosa, pericolic soft tissue Lymphovascular Invasion: Not identified Perineural Invasion: Not identified Margins: Proximal margin: Negative Distal margin: Negative Circumferential radial margin: Negative but close, 1.0 mm Distance of carcinoma from closest margin specify: 1.0 mm fro m seros al surface; 8.5 cm from proximal mucosal margin. Regional Lymph Nodes: Total number with metastasis: 1 Total number examined: 24 Additional pathologic findings: Appendix with follicular lymphoid hyperplasia and no tumor seen; tumor satellite nodule ide ntified. AJCC PATHOLOGIC TNM STAGE: pT3 pN1a Note: This pathologic stage assessment is based on information available at the time of this report, and is subject to cha nge pending clinical review and additional information. C: Liver mass, Segment 5, remo val - No evidence of metastatic disease. - Benign liver with minimal steatosis and mild portal triaditis D: Hernia sac, removal - Benign fibrovascular and fibroadipose soft tissue, consistent with hernia sac, with focal foreign body giant cell reaction wi th associated polarizable foreign material; no evidence of metastatic disease. Clinical History: large mass in the ascending colon. Biopsy demonstrates invasive moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma. CT im aging confirms mass and evidence of metastatic disease. Gross Description: Received are four formalin -filled containers. Container A: SITE: omentum METHOD: excision MEASURE: 6.5 x 3.6 x 1.5 cm COMMENT: yellowtan fibroadipose tissue with a central fi rm hard mass; cut section demonstrates a whitey ellow firm surface BLOCK: A1, omental mass Container B: Specimen fixation: formalin Parts of bowel received: terminal ileum, cecum and proximal ascending colon Specimen length: 27.3 cm Orientation: The specimen was received with a s titched end which appears to be the right ascending colon, inked blue. The distal ileum is inked black. Tumor location: tumor is located just distal, but apparently involving the ileocecal valve Gross appearance of tumor: distal to the ileo cecal valve is a ulcerated mass with whorled edges, this mass is firm; proximal to this is the ileocecal valve and this also appears to be at least superficially studded with tumor Tumor dimensions: 3.5 x 2.4 x 1.2 cm Circumferential growth: 70 Gross depth of invasion: the mass appea rs to gro ssly invade the subserosal soft tissues Gross evidence of perforation through visceral peritoneum: no Luminal obstruction: no Bowel circumference at tumor site: 6.0 cm, 1.5 cm diameter at tumor site Gross distance of tumor from margins: 9 cm f rom blue inked distal margin, 8.5 cm from black inked proximal margin Lymph nodes: per block summary Other remarkable findings: The rest of the colon and ileum are grossly unremarkable. Appendix is present with the specimen and is not grossly involved. Tissue submitted for special investigat ion: tissue submitted to Tissue Procurement Digital photograph taken: no Block Summary: Inking: proximal ileal marginblack, distal right colonic margin with stitchblue B1 - appendix, longitudinal section of tip, cross section of base B2 - proximal black inked margin, en face B3,B4 - distal blue inked margin, en face B5 - section of mass B6,B7 - additional section of mass, bisected B8 - mass in relation to pericolic fat B9 - section of ileocecal valve B10 - additional section of ileocecal valve B11 - five lymph node candidates B12 - five lymph node candidates B13 - five lymph node candidates B14,B15 - one grossly positive node, bisected B16 - four lymph node candidates B17 - two lymph node candidates Containe r C: SITE: liver, Segment 5 METHOD: biopsy MEASURE: 1.0 x 0.8 x 0.4 cm COMMENT: tanbrown soft tissue mass BLOCK: C1, Container D is additionally labeled hernia sac. It holds three pinktan soft tissue fragments measuring 2.5 x 1.9 x 0.8 cm in a ggregate. Block Summary: D1 - hernia sac Fibroadipose tissue remains. Grossing Pathologist: Light Microscopy: Light microscopic examination is performed by 
Diagnosis This concerns a moderately differentiated colic adenocarcinoma, G2, with infiltration of all wall layers pT3, with vascular infiltration L1, V1, with free lymph nodes pN0 014 as well as free resection margins, corresponding to R0. Tumor cl assification ICDO -DA M -81403 G2 pT3, L1, V1, pN0, consistent with R0 Note: The lymph nodes were relatively large enough to have been worthy of note in CTs or other procedures involving images.
Pathology form JSpecimen Information! Frozen Paraffin Block BloodSerumPlasma I Diseased I Normal Diseased 1 Normal Diseased I Normal 4-r 2 Time to LN2 Time to Formalin . Time to LN2 5 min , . min Slide Diseased I Normal , :p:c;cPATHOLOGICALDESCIUPTION iJ, ;;.,,.,.  . Primarv Tumor oro an Size Extension of Tumor Distance to NAT   a ,fW 1 xA-x em  em Lvmoh Nodes Location Examined  Metastasized Distant Metastasis orlan Detailed Location Size Pathological Staging  pT3 No M 0 Stage: 1 - Notes: 17cde N1ve COW 4 I .:: ;;.,,c;:;  :::. L- .:  Cell Distribution Diffuse Mosaic Necrosis Lymphocytic Infiltration Vascular Invasion Clusterized Alveolar Formation Indian File !Microscopic Description! :,:,.i VHistologlcat.Pattcrrtc:. .;:c --i--;-. ,.-;  ,  . .  - Structural Pattern  X Streamina Storiform  Fibrosis Y Palisadina Cvstic Deaeneration Bleed ina Mvxoid Chanae PsammomaCalcification  - c i :CYW?! :0 ::!. .;:  :--:-. 1tii : , c. -Celhilav Differentiation t ,;I; :::c.   :; --.  -. o;:-cf.;-: ..  ,.., ,. : ,:,c 7 -  c;: -::;:-- Squamous  -Adenomatous  -Sarcomatous  -Lymphomatous  - Sauamoid Cell Glandular cell C Round Cell Laroe Cell Spindle Cell Cell Stratification Fibroblast Small Cell Keratin Secretion Osteoblast RS CeiiRS Like Desmosome Intracvt. Vacuole Lipoblast Inflam. Cell Pearl Gland formation IXl Mvoblast Plasma Cell Cellular Differentiation: Well !2l Moderate Poor -  .  ::-: -,,. iic:k ;: ,  !11 Nii:leilfAppearance ccr  . 0:.-,i,,.: -: ;--;; : . ;. ; - Nuclear Atypia: 0 I II III Anise Nucleosis X Hyperchromatism V Nucleolar Prominent - Multinucleated Giant Cell 0 Mitotic Activity :X Nuclear Grade: i;e-;:::ii  tc--!;Jj ..  ..J;f:6: ,. ::, .s:- : . ::---, C:Ji; co! . , - Marker Result Value Date ER o Negative o Positive PR oNegative o Positive Her-2neu o Negative o Positive B-Cell Marker o Negative o Positive T-Cell Marker o Negative o Positive Other: o Negative o Positive Other: o Negative o Positive Final Pathology Reportl Histological Diagnosis:  l.Abc:;;i!;:e.:J.nuz..cc.st,RGI-:d...,, fQ!20111!.!!::.ctL  --;::--:---::::;:::- -----------------------------G-rade: :::L- Comments: 5  CONSOLIDATED DIAGNOSTIC PATHOLOGY FORM Microscopic Appearance: 1 n l  a1 t tsto ogtc pat ern: CELL DISTRIBUTION  - STRUCTURAL PATTERN Diffuse f Streami11g Mosaic  Storifonn Necrosis  Fibrosis !-YI11Jlhic Infiltration !, Palisadi!ll Vascular Invasion II tic Degeneration Clusterized  Bleeding Alveolar Formation t oidChange Indian File t PsammomaCalcification 2. Cellularpatures: !Iuamous  -Adenomatous  -Sarcomatous  -Lymphomatous uamoid Cell Glandular cell X Round Cell Large Cell ndleCell Cell Strntification Fibroblast Small Cell Keratin Secretion Osteoblast RS CeiVRS Like Jnflam. Cell Desmosome Intra Vacuole LJllQIIast Plasma Cell Pearl Gland formation oblast Otherwise. Specified: b J. 2-r-Cfh P 7D7a Pc;- 2. Cellular Dlferentiation: I Well Moderately Poor J. Nuclear Atypia: 0 J II Nuclear Appearance K Aniso NucJeosis l Hyperchromatism .,; Nucleolar Prominent ut Multinucleated Giant Cell iX Mitotic ActivitY D Nuclear Grade  -  - JJJ 
ology Examination: Histopathological examination - TGGA-05-5539 I of the large intestine with the distal segment of the ileum. Examination performed on: Macroscopic description: 20 em length of the large Intestine, with periintestinal tissue sized 23 x 11 x 3cm, 13.8-cm segment of the small intestine, and a 6 em appendix. Ulcerous tumour found in the mucosa, sized 3.3 x 5.2 x 0.8 em. The lesion surrounding 60 of the Intestine circumference, placed 15.3 em from the proximal cut end, 15.0 em from the distal cut end, and 1.4 em from the Ileocecal valve. Tumour accompanied by polyps of up to 2.0 em in diameter. Microscopic description: Adenocarcinoma tubulare et mucinosum G3. lnfiltratio carcinomatosa telae adiposae pericolicae. Intestine ends free of neoplastic lesions. Apart from the tumour: Adenoma tubulopapillare cum dysplasia minoris. metastases carcinomatosae In lymphonodo No I I IV. Histopathological diagnosis: Adenocarcinoma tubulare et mucinosum coli. Metastases carcinomatosae in lymphonodo No I I IV.  G3, Dukes C, Astler-Colier C2, pT3, pNl Vf6VL-fQ; V1-,lf:J HVCJI-:;, W;w:::c-A,Qcii.J::1f, Cf 11-i; c.ct--C!J lYIJ;:A;TATj C .--f-P-1--1 .J-:1-r::  1IV validated 
 SPECIMENS: A. TERMINAL ILEUM AND RIGHT COLON DIAGNOSIS: A. RIGHT COLON AND TERMINAL ILEUM, RESECTION: - INFILTRATING MODERATELY DIFFERENTIATED COLON ADENOCARCINOMA 2.2 CM INVOLVING THE SUBSEROSA. - SIXTEEN BENIGN LYMPH NODES 016. SEE TEMPLATE - SURGICAL MARGINS ARE NOT INVOLVED - MULTIPLE HYPERPLASTIC POLYPS AND SMALL TUBULAR ADENOMA. COLORECTAL CANCER TEMPLATE Specimen Type: Right hemicolectomy Tumor Site: Ascending colon Tumor Configuration: Ulcerating with indurated edge Tumor Size: 2.2 cm Histological Type: Adenocarcinoma Histological Grade: Moderate-poorly differentiated Extent of Invasion: Subserosa Margins: Uninvolved Distance to Closest Margin: 0.6 cm from radial margin Angiolymphatic Invasion: Absent Perineural Invasi on: Absent Additional Findings: Hyperplastic polyps and minute tubular adenoma Extent of Resection: R0: Complete Lymph Nodes: Negative: 016 Implants: Absent Pathological Stage: pT3a N0 MX SPECIMENS: A. TERMINAL ILEUM AND RIGHT COLON CLINICAL HISTORY: Not given GROSS DESCRIPTION: A. TERMINAL ILEUM AND RIGHT COLON Received fresh and labeled as terminal ileum and right colon. Received is a closed segment of colon and terminal ileum measuring 26.4 cm in length. There is a constricted portion of the right colon located at the mid segment. This entire segment is inked blue. The terminal ileum measures approximately 4.6 x 4.1 cm and the right colon measures 22.0 cm in length and 6.0 cm in diameter. There is an ulcerated tumor mass measu ring 2.2 x 2.2 x 0.6 cm which extends through the muscularis propria. The tumor is situated in the colon and is located 11.0 cm from the proximal margin and 13.0 cm from the distal colonic margin. There are several polyps present throughout the right colon ranging in size from 0.1 to 0.7 cm. Sections are taken for tissue procurement and gross photograph was also taken. Representative sections are submitted as follows: A1: shaved sections of proximal margin A2: shaved sections of distal margin A3-A11 : mass, including deep margin A12: polyps A13: normal-appearing colonic mucosa A14-A17: possible lymph nodes A18: normal-appearing tissue from ileum 
Diagnosis  Diagnoses: 1.: Right hemicolectomy specimen with tumor -free resection margins, under inclusion of an ulcerated, moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma right flexure, with infiltration and penetration of the lamina muscularis propria G2, pT 2. 2.: Rectal resectate with inclusion of a broad -based tubulovillous adenoma with mild dysplasia synonym: low -grade intra -epithelial neoplasia and also with free -free resection margins. A follow -up report will be made on the lymph node status. Follo w-up report: A total of 18 lymph nodes of up to 0.9 cm in size in the vicinity of the tumor were dissected out of the pericolic fatty tissue in the region of the right flexure 1. after acetone fixation. Based on microscopy, these were all tumor -free. In conclusion, or in summary, a stage of pT2 pN0 018 is thus determined for the adenocarcinoma described in the right hemicolectomy specimen. There were also no histological abnormalities in the fatty tissue on the rectal resectate. 
 CGA-A6-2686 Right colon CLINICAL NOTES PRE-OP DIAGNOSIS: Right colon CA CLINICAL HISTORY: with above - on bx GROSS DESCRIPTION Received fresh in a container labeled right colon is a previously opened portion of bowel, with a tan-pink smooth glistening serosal surface, and with adherent yellow adipose tissue. The is There is an appendix present 4.5 em long x 0.6 em. in diameter. appendix is grossly unremarkable, with a tan serosa, tan wall and tan mucosa, without focal lesion. The bowel consists of 5 em. of distal small bowel and 15 em. of contiguous proximal colon. There a circumferential 6 x 4.5 x 1.2 em. tumor mass in the ileocecal valvececal region. It grossly extends through the full thickness of the boNel wall and into surrounding adipose tissue. There is possible serosal umbilication, with this area inked blue, with this area difficult to assess due to the prior opening. The tumor is not near the radial margin. The mucosa away from the mass lesion is tan-pink and glistening with a normal pattern of folds. The colonic and portion of the specimen averages 8 em. in circumference, and the small bowel segment averages 4.2 em. in circumference. The small bowel is without focal lesion. The adipose tissue is dissected, multiple soft tan lymph nodes are identified. RS-13, following fixation, according to the accompanying block summary. BLOCK SUMMARY: 1 -proximal and distal resection margins; 2-5 - tumor, including relationship to uninvolved bowel and to serosal surfacei 6 -appendix, 7 -largest lymph node, bisected, 8-13 - lymph nodes, with multiple lymph nodes per block. MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION The follmving template summarizes the findings in this case: Histologic type: Adenocarcinoma Histologic grade: Poorly differentiated Primary tumor pT: pT3. Carcinoma invades through the full thickness of the bmlel wall and into surrounding adipose tissue. Proximal margin: Negative Distal margin: Negative Circumferential radial margin: Negative Distance of tumor from closest margin: See gross description Vascular invasion: Not definitively identified. Regional lymph nodes pN: pNO. Thirty-three lymph nodes are identified 1 and they are negative for malignancy. Non-lymph node pericolonic tumor: Not identified Distant metastasis pM : pMX Other findings: The appendix is without specific diagnostic abnormalities. DIAGNOSIS Terminal ileum, appendix, and right colon, excision -Poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma, invading through the full thickness of the bowel wall and into surrounding adipose tissue see microscopic description. -Margins negative for malignancy. -Thirty-three lymph nodes negative for malignancy. -Appendix without specific diagnostic abnormalities. 
Findings and diagnosis relating to the problem The material at hand is an invasive adenocarcinoma of the colon in block A, poorly differentiated, tending toward partial neuroendocrine differentiation, with penetration of all wall layers and clear vascular infiltration corresponding to p T 3, L1, V1. Otherwise, in relation to the mucosa resection margins: - orally - muco sa of ile um type and - distally - muco sa of colon type - in relation to the ligature region  local fatty connective tissue with proper vascular sections - relating to the appendix  chronic recurrent , partially scarring appendicitis with clear activation of the lymph follicle, and - relating to the lymph nodes  chronic resorptive lymphadenitis, also with clear activation of the lymph follicle Tumor classification: ICDO -DA M 81403 G 3 p T 3, L1, V1, p N 0 consistent with R 0. N 012 
 DiagnosisDiagnoses:  1. Sections of a polypoid neoplasm of the colonic mucosa with the structure of a tubular adenoma with high- grade dysplasia or transition to at least intramucosal adenocarcinoma in situ synonym according to WHO: high- grade intr a-epithelial neoplasia, according to IUCC: pTis 2.: Small, or only small portions of, tubular adenomas of the colonic mucosa with slight dysplasia synonym: low -grade intra -epithelial neoplasia. 3.: Tubular adenoma of the colonic mucosa with high- grade d ysplasia and transition to an intramucosal adenocarcinoma synonym according to WHO: high- grade intra -epithelial neoplasia, according to IUCC: pTis In 1. and 3., no detectable transition to a manifest, deeper colon carcinoma infiltrating the wall layers. Complete tumor resection  where not already done  is recommended Right hemicolectomy specimen with an ulcerated colon carcinoma in the area of the cecal pole measuring 4 cm in the largest diameter and displacing the appendiceal o rifice, arising from a tubulovillous adenoma with severe epithelial dysplasia synonym: high- grade intra -epithelial neoplasia. Invasive tumor spread as far as the muscularis propria. Appendix with formation of an obstructive type of mucocele and with pers istent or florid chronic appendicitis and perityphlitis. DiagnosisDiagnoses Oral and aboral resection margin and greater omentum tumor -free. Twenty -four mesocolic and mesenteric lymph nodes tumor -free and with uncharacteristically reactive changes. Tumor stage therefore pT2 pN0 024 L0 V0; G2 
Diagnosis: The material available is an invasive, moderately differentiated adeno carcinoma of the colon, G2, with penetration of all parietal layers pT3 , with vascular infiltration L1, V1, with free resection margins locally R0 and free lymph nodes pN0, 0 of 14. Remark: In Block D, the polyps were examined separately. They were found to be serrated adenomas with dentate form cylind rical epithelia and goblet cells, as well as bleeding in the stroma. The polyps did not show any evidence of invasive struct ures. Tumor classification : ICDO -DA-M 81403 G2 pT3, pN0 014 Locally R0 M classification in oncology conference . 
UUID:6F6B3572-6437-48AB-BDCB-91CE61567612 TCGA-DM-A1D0-01A-PR Redacted III IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII III IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII II IIIIIII III IIIIIII111 IIIIIII Tumor Site: LDate of Cancer Sample Procurement: Histology: Description of other histology: Grade: Mucinous: Signet Ring Feature: Histologic Heterogeneity: Host Response: Crohn s like reaction Plasma cell rich stroma Growth Pattern: Inflammatory Bowel Disease Angiolymphatic Invasion: Mutator Phenotype: Number of Slides Garland Necrosis present: TIL Cells  HPF Pathologist Comment: C  - 3 Ztne cae-trci A1os 8I yo3 First Tumor Sigmoid Distal Ade.nocarcinoma Poorly Differentiated :No r1No Noner No None r Nor Yes rYes Yes r Yes r Yes r Expansile r Invasiver, Expansiler Unknownand Invasive r No M., No No No rr Yes r Yes r Yes r Yes GiterbC Yesr UnknownFocal r Yesr UnknownFocal r Unknown r Unknown r Unknown r Unknown rUnknown rUnknown Yesr UnknownFocal ea Diagnosis Discrepancy Primary Tumor Site Discrepancy H!PAA D!-. anry -- -- -L-i Prize Ml;ena.cy History  Dus!Synchrorous Prima N .d i Case is iclrc!eUA:IF D QUA -D..is lnitl !  Wt Rtd;- I
UUID:0D65923F-583D-42C2-8CA3-0A209D5F0490 TCGA-NH-A8F8 -01A-PRRedacted III II IIIIIIIlIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII lillllliiilllllllllllllllllllllllllllRUN DATE : III 111111 IIIII111111111I IIIIIIIIIIIIIII I1111111111I11111111IIIRUNTI1q : 1111111  111111111111IN 11111I11111111IIIRUN USER:L PATIENT: REG DR: SPEC :ACCT I AGESX: DOB: STATUS:M: ROOM:LOC BED: RECD: STATUS: PERFORME COLL: TIME IN FORMALIN: COLD ISCHEMA TIME: CLINICAL INFORMATION: Pre-Op Diagnosis :Colon CA, RO metastatic liver involvement Remarks: Specimen s:A.Wedgebiopsy liver B.Right hemicolectomy C.Wedge biopsy liver 2hrs. mins.91W WEDGE BIOPSY LIVER 1: METASTATIC COLONIC ADENOCARCINOMA PRESENT ON PERMANENT SECTION BUT NOT SEEN ON FROZEN SECTION PORTION RIGHT COLON. PORTION TERMINAL ILEUM AND APPENDIX, RIGHT HEMICOLECTOMY: ADENOCARCINOMA OF ASCENDING COLON, LOW GRADE TUMOR MEASURES 5 CM AND PENETRATES VISCERAL PERITONEUM SURGICAL MARGINS FREE OF TUMOR WITH NEAREST MARGIN 8 CM FROM TUMOR, RADIAL AND PROXIMAL METASTATIC ADENOCARCINOMA PRESENT IN 15 OF 22 REGIONAL LYMPH NODES WITH EXTRACAPSULAR EXTENSION SEE COMMENT FOR SYNOPTIC REPORT WEDGE BIOPSY LIVER 2: -METASTATIC COLONIC ADENOCARCINOMA COMMENTS SURGICAL PATHOLOGY CANCER CASE SUMMARY - CAP APPROVED , Specimen: Procedure: Tumor Site: Tumor Size: Macroscopic Tumor Perforation: Histologic Type: Histologic Grade: Microscopic Tumor Extension: Margins:j6 3 Terminal ileum, cecum, appendix, ascending colon Right hemicolectomy Right ascending colon 5 cm in greatest dimension Not identified Adenocarcinoma Low-grade Tumor penetrates to the surface of the visceral peritoneum serosa Distance of invasive carcinoma from closest margin: 8cm  CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE RUN DATEPAGE 2 RUN TIME RUN USER SPEC: PATIENT :Continued COMMENT S Continued Specify Margin; Proximal and radial Treatment Effect: No prior treatment Lymph-Vascular Invasion: Present Perineural Invasion: Not identified Tumor Deposits: Present Pathologic Staging: Primary Tumor: pT4a Regional Lymph Nodes:pN2b Number examined: 22 Number involved: 15 Distant Metastasis :pMl;liver GROSS DESCRIPTION: The specimen is received in the fresh state from the operating room in three parts. A.This is a piece of tan tissue measuring 10 x 10 x 2 mm, totally examined by frozen section as block Al. B.This specimen, received in the fresh state from the operating room for immediate gross evaluation for evaluation of surgical margins and tumor banking is a right hemicolectomy specimen.The colon measures 24 cm in length by 6 cm in maximum diameter; the terminal ileummeasures 6 cm in length by 2 cm in diameter; the appendix measures 7x 0,8 cm. Present in the ascending colon is a circumferential, tan tumor which measures 5 x 5 x 5 cm located 8 cm from the radial margin, 8 cm from the proximal margin. and 12 cm from the distal margin.Tissue of the overlying visceral peritoneum is puckered suggestive of visceral peritoneal penetration.Blue ink is applied to these regions. Regional adipose tissue attached to the specimen measures 15 x 13 x 3 cm. A representative section of the tumor is submitted for tumor banking. Multiple regional lymph nodes are positive for metastatic tumor, the largest measuring 1.5 cm in greatest dimension and exhibiting extracapsular extension of the tumor.The following sections are submitted: B1-appendix and proximal margin B2-distal margin B3-6 - colonmasswith blue ink on abnormal visceral peritoneum B7-colon mass B8,9 - whole lymph nodes B10-12- representative sections of positive lymph nodes C.This is a wedge biopsy of liver measuring 1 x 1 x 0.5 cm. Portions of the tissue appear to be replaced by tumor. A representative section is examined by frozen section as block Cl. All remaining tissue is submitted as block C2. INTRAOPERATIVE CONSULTATION: A.FROZEN SECTION DIAGNOSIS WEDGE BIOPSY LIVER 1: FIBROSIS B.IMMEDIATE GROSS EVALUATION RIGHT HEMICOLECTOMY:  CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE RUN DATE: PAGE 3 RUN TIME: RUN USER SPEC : PATIENT: Continued INTRAOPERATIVE CONSULTATION: Continued -ADENOCARCINOMA -SURGICAL MARGINS FREE OF TUMOR -SPECIMEN PROCESSED FOR TUMOR BANKING CFROZEN SECTION DIAGNOSIS WEDGE BIOPSY LIVER 2: -METASTATIC ADENOCARCINOMA PHOTO DOCUMENTATION Image -Picture Copy Error Image Picture Copy Error Image Picture Copy Error Image Picture Copy Error Image Picture Copy Error Signed signature on file  END OF REPORT  Criteria Diagnosis Disc: epancy1Yes Priniary Tumor Site Discrepancy HIPAA Discrepancy Prior Malignancy History Du!!Synchronous Primaryoted Case is rir e : IFIED  DISQIIALJFI Reviewer it al Date Reviewed0 7
FINAL DIAGNOSIS: LEFT COLON, SEGMENTAL COLECTOMY- A. POLYPOID ADENOCARCINOMA, WELL TO MODERATELY DIFFERENTIATED, 2.0 CM, INVASIVE INTO THE SUBMUCOSA. B. LYMPHOVASCULAR INVASION IDENTIFIED CONFIRMED WITH iMMUNOSTAINS FOR CD31 AND D2-40. C. NO TUMOR SEEN IN THIRTEEN LYMPH NODES 013. D. UNINVOLVED COLON WITH NO PE;CFIC ABNORMALITY, INCLUDING PROXIMAL AND DISTAL RESECTION MARGINS. r-----.:::E:. .PATHOLOGIC STAGE: pT1 NO MX. CASE SYNOPSIS: . .. -----------SYNOPTIC DATA-PRIMARY COLON, RECTAL, APPENDIX TUMORS SPECIMEN TYPE: Left hemicolectomy TUMOR SITE: Left descending colon TUMOR CONFIGURATION: Exophytic polypoid TUMOR SIZE: Greatest dimension: 2.0 em INTACTNESS OF MESORECTUM: HISTOLOGIC TYPE: HISTOLOGIC GRADE: PATHOLOGIC STAGING pTNM: MARGINS: Additional dimensions: 2.0 X 0.5 em Not applicable Adenocarcinoma Low-grade well to moderately differentiated pT1 pNO Number of nodes examined: 13 Number of nodes involved: 0 pMX . . . Proximal margin uninvolved by mvas1ve carcmoma Distal margin uninvolved by invasive carcinoma Circumferential radial margin-Not applicable Mesenteric margin uninvolved by invasive carcinoma ANGIOLYMPHATIC INVASION: Indeterminate PERINEURAL INVASION: Absent TUMOR BORDER CONFIGURATION: Infiltrating TUMORAL LYMPHOCYTIC RESPONSE: Mild to moderate TCGA-AZ-4313 
Diagnosis Resected colon material with an ulcerated, slightly differentiated adenocarcinoma of the colorectal type, located 3 cm from a resection margin, with infiltration of the pericolic fatty tissue, circumscribed penetration of the covering serosa as w ell as 23 local lymph node metastases. Partly angioinvasive tumor branches, extending up to the mesenteric resection margin. Tumor -free colon resection margins. Tumor classification: pT4, pN2 2329, pMX; G3, L1, V1, R1.
Diagnosis: This is a partial resection sample of the colon transverse colon with a moderately to poorly differentiated adeno carcinoma with a histopathological differentiation grade G2- 3, with erosions of the inner tumor surface, with peritumorous chronic recurrent secondary inflammation with an acute inflammatory flare, with carcinomatous lymphangitis, with tumor infiltration of the colon wall layers as far as the tunica muscularis, with moderate chronic lymphadenitis of the tumor -free lymph nodes 015  and with tumor -free overview s lices from all other parts of the resection material described According to the section preparations available, the tumor spread of the colon carcinoma correspond to the tumor stage pT 2, pN0 015, Mx, L1, R0 . Tumor clas sification : ICDO -DA-M 81403, G 2-3 10 
 Formatted Path Report Colon segment up to 17 cm long with the tumor of 9 cm in its largest dimension; fatty tissue lymph nodes are small, their observation is not enough informative.Adenocarci noma; G2; fatty tissue infiltration.Lymph nodes demonstrate reactive changes. Tumor Features: Ulcerated, Tumor Extent: Fat, NOS, Venous Invasion: Absent, Margins: Absent, Treatment Effect: LARGE INTESTINE TISSUE CHECKLIST Specimen type: Sigmoid colectomySpecimen size: Not specifiedTumor site: Sigmoid colonTumor size: 0 x 0 x 9 cmTumor features: UlceratedHistologic type: AdenocarcinomaHistologic grade: Moderately differentiatedTumor extent: Pericolonic tissuesLymph nodes: 012 positive for metastasis Adjacent fatty tissue 012Margins: Not specified Evidence of neo-adjuvant treatment: Not specifiedAdditional pathologic findings: Not specifiedComments: None 
 SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT SPECIMEN A. Transverse colostomy B. Omental lymph node C. Transverse and descending colon includes site of procurement colostomy CLINICAL NOTES PRE- OP DIAGNOSIS: Cancer splenic flexure. GROSS DESCRIPTION A. The Specimen is received unfixed labeled transverse colostomy and consists of a colostomy takedown specimen measuring 6 x 4.5 x 3 cm. On cut section, the mucosal surface is tan with some focal red disc o ation near the skin margin. Sections after fixation. - B. Specimen is rec v d in formalin labeled omental lymph node and con s s of a yellow piece of tissue measuring 0.9 x 0.4 x 0.5 cm. - C. The speci n is received unfixed labeled transverse and descending colon and consists of two separate segments of large bowel. One segment has stapled margins and measures 11.5 x approximately 4 cm in diameter. This segment has a central area of induration and narrowing on the serosal surface. The abnormal area is 3 cm from the nearest stapled margin. There is abundant pericolonic fat and the entire specimen is up to 15 cm in diameter. The other segment of bowel has stapled margins and measures 10 cm in length and 3.5 cm in diameter. It has adjacent pericolonic fat and omentum and this portion of the specimen is up to 21 cm in diameter. There is a firm area that appears to be an omental fat that measures 3 cm in greatest dimension. On cut section, the omental lesion is tan- green and measures 1.5 cm in greatest dimension. Segments of bowel are open with single incisions on the antimesenteric surface. There is a fungating tumor in the descending colon that has a polypoid appearance and appears to be circumferential. It measures 6.5 x 5.5 x approximately 1 cm. Portions of the specimen are taken for research purposes. Sections after fixation and clearing. Block summary: 1,2 transverse colon margins of resection; 3 transverse colon; 4 omentum; 5- 8 transverse colon lymph nodes; 9.10 descending colon margins; 11 cobblestone mucosa; 12- 15 tumor; 16- 26 pericolonic lymph nodes. MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION A. Benign reactive changes are seen. B. A single lymph node is negative for malignancy. C. Tumor type: Colonic adenocarcinoma Tumor grade: 1 of 3 Tumor size: 6.5 Distance to nearest margin: 3 Level of penetration: Carcinoma penetrates into pericolonic soft tissue Margins of resection: Negative for malignancy Vascular invasion: Absent Host response: Mild chronic inflammation, focally Crohns like Attached lymph nodes: There is no evidence of malignancy in any of 34 lymph nodes in the descending colon or 12 lymph nodes in the transverse colon. Non- lymph node pericolonic tumor: Absent pTNM Stage: T3 N0 Other findings: Omental fat necrosis. Transverse colon unremarkable. Cobblestone mucosa in the descending colon is lymphoid hyperplasia. 2,3,5 DIAGNOSIS A. Transverse colon colostomy, takedown: Benign reactive changes B. Omental lymph node, biopsy: A single lymph node is negative for malignancy C. Colon, transverse and descending, resection: Well- differentiated colonic adenocarcinoma of the descending colon. Note: The margins of resection are negative for malignancy. There is no evidence of malignancy in any of 12 transverse colon lymph nodes or 34 descending colon lymph nodes. --- End Of Report --- 
 SPECIMENS: A. LEFT COLON DIAGNOSIS: A. LEFT COLON, HEMICOLECTOMY: - INVASIVE MODERATE TO POORLY DIFFERENTIATED ADENOCARCINOMA. - TUMOR IS 6.0 CM IN MAXIMUM DIMENSION. - TUMOR INVADES TRANSMURALLY TO INVOLVE SUBSEROSA. - SURGICAL MARGINS FREE OF TU MOR. - SEE NOTE. - SEE TEMPLATE. - EIGHT OF SEVENTEEN PERICOLONIC LYMPH NODES POSITIVE FOR METASTATIC ADENOCARCINOMA 817. - FOCAL EXTRANODAL EXTENSION IS IDENTIFIED. NOTE: This tumor extends well beyond muscularis propria 5 mm into the s ubserosal soft tissue. Focally the tumor closely approaches the inked peritoneal and radial surfaces, but does not quite reach them in the sections examined. COLORECTAL CANCER TEMPLATE Specimen Type: Left hemicolectomy Tumor Site: Left descending colon Tumor Configuration: Infiltrative; Ulcerating Tumor Size: 6 x 4 x 2.3 Histologic Type: Adenocarcinoma Histologic Grade: G3 Extent of Invasion: Subserosa Margins: Uninvolved by invasive ca Proximal, Distal, Radial VenousLymphatic Invasion: Present Perineural Invasion: Absent Additional Pathologic Findings: Extent of Resection: R0: Complete resection wgrossly  microscopically negative margins Lymph Nodes: Positive 817; Extranodal extension Implants: Absent EGFR Expression: Pathologic Stage: pT3cd N2 MX SPECIMENS: A. LEFT COLON GROSS DESCRIPTION: A. LEFT COLON: Received fresh for tissue procurement labeled with the patients name and left colon, and distal margin-double, single-proximal margin, is a segment of colon, 21.5 cm. in length, with an indurated serosal surface involving 8.5 cm. of its length, and a puckering in the region of a large mass bulging from the colonic surface. The staples closing the proximal and distal ends are removed, and the colon is opened to reveal a circumferential tumor 4 cm in length, 6 cm in circumference, and 2.3 cm maximum height. The tumor is centrally ulcerated with heaped-up borders that are approximately 1 cm. above the mucosal surface. The tumor is 9.5 cm. from the proximal margin and 7.8 cm. from the distal margin. The circumference of the proximal bowel is 10 cm, the distal bowel 5.5 cm, and the circumference is narrowed to 3.7 cm. in the area of the tumor. The cut surface of the tumor is tan-white, and t he central ulcerated area is coated with purulent material. There is a polypoid projection of the mucosa at the distal edge of the tumor measuring 0.4x0.6 cm., raised above the mucosal surface 0.7 cm. In the region of serosal puckering, the tumor is 1.2 cm. deep, and appears to extend through the muscularis and into the subserosal fat. Adjacent to this area there are three tan-white nodules in the subserosal fat, 1.1 cm., 1 cm. and 0.7 cm. in maximum dimension. Two additional nodules are identified in t he subserosal fat 1.1 cm. in maximum dimension. The mucosa surrounding the tumor is tan- pink, normally folded, with no masses or polyps identified. Multiple possible lymph nodes are identified in the attached fat. Representative sections are submitted as follows: A1: proximal margin, 2 pieces A2: distal margin A3: deepest extent of tumor, 1 piece A4,A5: three nodules in subserosal fat, A5 is adjacent to A4, 1 piece each A6: tumor in adjacent proximal mucosa, 1 piece A7: central ulceration adjacent to A6, 1 piece A8: polypoid region, distal border of tumor, 1 piece A9: deep continuation of A8, 1 piece A10: normal mucosa adjacent to A9, 1 piece A11: tumor and adjacent proximal mucosa, 1 piece A12: nodules in subserosal fat, 1 cm. in diameter, 1 piece A13: 0.7 cm. diameter nodule and subserosal fat, 1 piece A14: normal proximal mucosa, 2 pieces A15: normal distal mucosa, 2 pieces A16: four possible lymph nodes in fat proximal to tumor A17: seven possible lymph nodes in fat proximal to tumor A18: four possible lymph nodes in fat proximal to tumor A19,A20, possible lymph nodes in fat proximal to tumor, 7 each A21,A22: possible lymph nodes adjacent to tumor, 4 each A23: five possible lymph nodes adjacent to tumor A24: six possible lymph nodes distal to tumor A25: five possible lymph nodes distal to tumor A26: six possible lymph nodes, distal to tumor A27: three possible lymph nodes, distal to tumor 
 SPECIMEN A. Sigmoid colon, upper rectum and adherent posterior bladder wall and small intestines B. Appendix CLINICAL NOTES PRE- OP DIAGNOSIS: Rectal cancer. GROSS DESCRIPTION A. Received fresh subsequently fixed in formalin labeled sigmoid, upper rectum with adherent posterior bladder wall and small intestines. The specimen consists of a rectosigmoid colon with adherent portions of small bowel and possible portion of bladder. A segment of small bowel was 12 cm long, stapled at both ends, which are arbitrarily inked blue and black. A portion of colon is 46 cm long. Both ends are stapled, inked blue and the opposite is opened and is inked black. There is also a small portion of possible bladder, which is 7 x 5 cm. This is smooth to slightly velvety and the margin of this is inked blue. Orientation cannot be determined. One end away from the tumor is inked blue. The opposite end close to the tumor is inked black. The specimen is opened to show a large fungating mass, which is 12 x 11.5 x 3.5 cm. This comes within 2.5 cm of the black inked margin. This tumor is centrally necrotic and goes through the wall of the colon, into the surrounding fat and through the wall of the small bowel into the mucosa of the small bowel. The remainder of the mucosa of small bowel is pink- tan smooth glistening with normal slightly dilated poles having an average circumference of 6.5 cm and the mucosal alteration of tumor is 3.5 x 3.5 cm. This comes within equidistant luminal margins of the small bowel. The tumor also comes through the wall into the fat and possibly involves the mucosa of the portion of bladder. This is velvety, coming within 0.5 cm of the nearest peripheral margin. The remainder of the mucosa of the specimen is pink- tan smooth glistening with an average circumference of 9.5 cm. The tumor comes within 1.5 cm of being circumferential and shows a markedly necrotic central focus. Lymph nodes are grossly identified. Representative sections of the specimen are submitted as follows: BLOCK SUMMARY: 1 - Representative luminal margins of small bowel, 2 - representative section of small bowel tumor, 3- 4 - representative section of bladder to tumor, 5 - representative luminal margins of the colon, 6 - representative section of tumor to normal, 7 and 8 - representative sections of tumor to fat, 9- 12 - have six possible lymph nodes - have four possible lymph nodes each. RS-15. B. Received in formalin labelled appendix is a 6.3 x 0.7 cm appendix which is partially covered with pink- tan smooth glistening serosa and yellow lobular fat. The specimen is sectioned to show an intact wall with an average thickness of 0.4 cm. The lumen ranges from pinpoint to 0.4 cm and shows possible diverticula present. No other discrete gross lesions are identified. The entire specimen with the exception of the fat is submitted in t settes. AS- 2 fat retained, proximal end inked. AS- 2. MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION A. Microscopic exam of the resection shows: Histologic type: Adenocarcinoma, not otherwise specified Histologic grade: Moderately differentiated Primary tumorpT: Tumor invades through the entire colonic wall and through the entire adhesed small intestinal wall into the lumen of the small intestine. The tumor also invades into the muscularis propria of the bladder wall pT4b. Proximal margin: Negative for tumor. Distal margin: Negative for tumor. Circumferential radial margin: Negative for tumor although not truly applicable given the resection of the adhered additional organs. Distance of tumor from closest margin: 2.5 from one of the colonic margins Vascular invasion: Not identified. Regional lymph nodes pN: 30 lymph nodes are dissected from the specimen and they are all negative for metastatic pN0. Non- lymph node pericolonic tumor: Present in the soft tissue adhesing the small intestine and the bladder to the upper rectalsigmoid colon resection. No discrete additional nodules of pericolonic tumor seen. Distant metastasis pM: Cannot evaluate pMX. Other findings: There is significant necrosis of the tumor in the central areas. B. Microscopic examination of the appendix reveals a benign mucocele at the tip. No dysplasia or malignancy is identified. There is focal fibrous obliteration of the tip including obliteration of the diverticulum. There is acute serositis and ahdesions. 5x1, 2x1, 3260F DIAGNOSIS A. Sigmoid colon, upper rectum and adherent posterior bladder wall and small intestines, resection: Invasive moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma. Tumor invades through the entire colonic wall and through the entire adhesed small intestinal wall into the mucosa of the small intestine. Tumor invades into the muscularis propria of the bladder pT4b. Thirty lymph nodes are negative for metastatic tumor 030 pN0. Resection margins are negative for tumor. B. Appendix, excision: Hyperplastic mucinous epithelium consistent with benign mucocele. . Resection margins are negative. Serosal adhesions.  --- End Of Report --- 
 SPECIMENS: A. PERITONEAL IMPLANT B. SMALL BOWEL IMPLANT C. SIGMOID COLON D. RECTAL DONUT E. COLON DONUT DIAGNOSIS: A. PERITONEAL IMPLANT: - POSITIVE FOR ADENOCARCINOMA. B. SMALL BOWEL IMPLANT: - POSITIVE FOR ADENOCARCINOMA. C. SIGMOID COLON, RESECTION: - CIRCUMFERENTIAL EXOPHYTIC ULCERATED MODERATELY DIFFERENTIATED INVASIVE ADENOCARCINOMA OF SIGMOID COLON WITH FULL MUSCLE WALL THICKNESS INVASION, EXTENSION TO SUBSEROSAL FAT WITH METASTASIS TO ONE OUT OF TWENTY FIVE LYMPH NODES AND WITH PERICOLIC FAT TUMOR IMPLANTS.125 - SIZE OF TUMOR 5 X 3.5 X 1.6 CM. - MARGINS OF RESECTION - NEGATIVE FOR TUMOR. D. RECTAL DONUT: - RING SEGMENT OF COLONIC TISSUE -- NEGATIVE FOR TUMOR. E. COLON DONUT: - RING SEGMENT OF COLONIC TISSUE, NEGATIVE FOR TUMOR. COLORECTAL CANCER TEMPLATE Specimen Type: Sigmoidectomy Tumor Site: Sigmoid colon Tumor Configuration: Exophytic polypoid, infiltrative, ulcerating Tumor Size: 5.0 x 3.5 x 1.6 cm Histologic Type: adenocarcinoma Histologic Grade: G2: Moderately differentiated Extent of Invasion: Lamina propria, submucosa, muscularis propria Margins: Margins uninvolved by invasive carcinoma proximal, distal, radial VenousLymphatic Invasion: Present Perineural Invasion: Absent Additional Pathologic Findings: tubular adenoma Extent of Resection: R0: Complete resection with grossly and microscopically negative margins Lymph Nodes: Positive 125 Implants: Present EGFR Expression: na Pathologic Stage: pT3 N1 Mx NOTE: Nodular focus of tumor implant seen in slide C13 and C16. Small focus of tubular adenoma in association with carcinoma seen in slide labelled C 31. SPEC IMENS: A. PERITONEAL IMPLANT B. SMALL BOWEL IMPLANT C. SIGMOID COLON D. RECTAL DONUT E. COLON DONUT CLINICAL HISTORY: with carcinoma sigmoid colon INTRAOPERATIVE CONSULTATION DIAGNOSIS: FSA: Soft tissue, peritoneal implant, bx: - Metastatic poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma by GROSS DESCRIPTION: A. PERITONEAL IMPLANT: Received fresh is a 1x0.8x0.7 cm. tan-red piece of tissue with tan-white solid cut surface. Half is submitted for frozen section and the other half is submitted in cassette A2. B. SMALL BOWEL IMPLANT: Received fresh is one fragment of tan-pink soft tissue measuring 1x0.5x0.4 cm. The specimen is submitted in toto in one cassette. C. SIGMOID COLON:RESECTION Received in fresh state is a resected segment of sigmoid colon with attached indurated pericolic fat measuring 17 cm in length. There is a firm, palpable mass with overlying indurated mesocolic fat in the mid segment of the specimen, which when opened shows an ulcerated exophytic circumferential tumor situated 10.5 cm and 9.0 cm from margins of resection. The tumor measures 5 x 3.5 x 1.6 cm. Cut section shows a tan dirty white granular firm surface infiltrating the full thickness of the colonic wall with extension into the subjacent adipose tissue. The remainder of the colonic mucosa shows prominent mucosal fold with hyperemia. Approximately 25 lymph nodes are identified ranging in size from 0.1 to 0.8 cm in diameter Multiple sections are submitted as follows: C1-C5: en bloc section of tumor with pericolic fat C6-C7: sections from the resecte margins C8-10- sections form tumor areathe colonic wall and area of tumor C11-C24: sections from lymph nodes C25-C31: additional more sections tumor and adjacent areas. D. RECTAL DONUT: Received in formalin is a piece of donut tissue measuring 2.5x1.8x0.8 cm. Specimen is bisected and submitted in toto in cassette D1 and D2. E. COLON DONUT: Received in formalin is a donut shaped tissue measuring 2.0x1.7x0.6 cm. The specimen is bisected and submitted in toto in cassette E1 and E2. Also included is a n umbrella shaped like metallic object ,rod measures 3.0cm.in length and head measures 3.0 cm in diameter.. Gross exam only. 
For Collectiot:1 of Cancerous Tissue IInformed Consen I personally informed that a specimens would be collected to be used for research purposes. I reviewed RESEARCH SUBJECT INFORMATION AND CONSENT FORM with the patient answered any questions the patient had. The patient then signed the consent form as a free and voluntary act. A copy of . . our institution. Name of Physician or Study Coordinator Clinical Informationl Chief Complaints: A-b Symptoms: Clinical Findings: Performance Scale Karnofsky Score: . . 0 o 100 Asymptomatic Symptomatic but Fully Ambulatory 0 60-yo SymptomatIc, III bed less than 50 Yo of day o 40-50 . in bed more than 50 of but not bed rIdden 0 20-30 Bed Ridden ., ;.v: . ,X A;. ,; CURRENT MEDICATIONS; : .. ,, x  ,.:c., ,  DruQ Dose Route Frequency Date mmddyyyy  I To I    To    I To     To  I   To I ! Relative Diagnosis Age of Diagnosis D Negative D Positive:   D Negative D Positive:   BIT Cell Markers: 2 Location of Sus ected Involved L m h Nodes Location of Sus ected Distant Metastasis Clinical Sta in   A. I   T N  M 0 Stage: JL A-- reatment Information :. .  ....... ::. ..  ...... .:::My;:r;;i2k;:. .. SURGICAV;TREA.TMENTl;i.:.:. h.;; i. ..;.;, r  ; ..  ... , Procedure Date of Procedure J-t  Yh A f .IJJo pt:CY11 .4 PrimarY Tumor Organ I Detailed Location I Size tcZl7 ktlf1CD2 lA-Ge??  t?7 -x 3 x Zcm Extension of Tumor IL Lymph Nodes Description Location of Lymph Nodes  of Lymph Nodes Palpable, Non-Dissected Lymph Nodes Dissected Lymph Nodes Distant Metastasis Organ Detailed Location Size Surgical Staging T : No M ty Stage: TTA- .. :. ,... : :NEOAllJUVEN1J:THERAP:Chemo; Radiatiori,lmmunq; Hormoriabor Molecular  ,. . ..   .,. DrugTreatment Dose Route Frequency Date mmddyyyy   To     To  I   To  I   To I    To  I 3 Pathology Form ISpecimen Informationl Collected by: Preserved by:  ;!,g ,5;: :..:;;C !;i PATHOLOGICALDESCRIPTIONif:.Y:..:r,. :.,  l,:,:;, .-:: -,.:, .. .   . . . ,  ,,:;:::-, ,.;0 -;-. -, :::1.:  Primary Tumor Organ Size Extension of Tumor Distance to NAT IF bn JjiIPfl? -4 x ? x 2. em ks,c;1!IJ 0  em 1ymh Nodes v Location  Examined  Metastasized Distant Metastasis Organ Detailed Location Size Pathological Staging pT ? N 0 M 0 Stage: JL Notes: !tJPd!eJ,  J11j 142 .::: Ulrrjce7a2  4 IMicroscopic Descriptionl Cell Distribution  Structural Pattern  Diffuse ;-v Streaming Mosaic Storiform Necrosis Fibrosis Lymphocytic Infiltration P Palisading Vascular Invasion Cystic Degeneration Clusterized Bleeding Alveolar Formation Myxoid Change Indian File PsammomaCalcification Squamous  -Adenomatous  Sarcomatous  Lymphomatous  Squamoid Cell Glandular cell l Round Cell Large Cell Spindle Cell Cell Stratification Fibroblast Small Cell Keratin Secretion Osteoblast RS CellRS Like Desmosome Intracyt. Vacuole Lipoblast Inflam. Cell Pearl Gland formation Myoblast Plasma Cell Cellular Differentiation: Well Moderate Poor 03  .. ... ..;,.r .. . .;. .. . :.;;.: .. ::::irz;t;.0tM.ji;:;f, Nuclear Appeara nceht  :;;rjI::. .;;;;;:....; ,. ::;;;,1;.; Nuclear Atypia: 0 I II III Aniso Nucleosis Hyperchromatism Nucleolar Prominent Multinucleated Giant Cell Mitotic Activity Nuclear Grade: .L. ;2.;. ..;.. ... ... .;;;::g:;;1s7 til.;i;:;;s::;:?;Y; H;rDf:ii:;!ii1;r;lliiJ;;:;j;fo:;;;;;;;; if;;;; . ...... ;;,;. . .;.:.;k;; . :; ,. Marker Result Value Date ER o Negative o Positive PR o Negative o Positive Her-2neu o Negative o Positive B-Cell Marker o Negative o Positive T-Cell Marker o Negative o Positive Other: o Negative o Positive Other: o Negative o Positive IFinal Pathology Reportj Pathologist 5 ATED DIAGNOSTIC PATHOLOGY FORM  Mieroseopie Appearance: Jilt . ISIo ogica pattern: CELL DISTRIBUTION  - STRUCTURAL PATTERN  Diffuse -IX Streamin2 Mosaic X Storifonn Necrosis . Fibrosis Lymphocytic Infiltration lX. Palisadinl!: Vascular Invasion LX. Cystic Deeneration Clusterized 0 Bleeding Alveolar Fonnation  Myxoid Change Indian File K PsammomaCalcification 2. Cellular features: Squamous  -Adenomatous  -Sareomatous  -Lymohomatous  - Squamoid Cell Glandular cell ,., Round Cell Large Cell Spindle Cell Cell Stratification .! Fibroblast Small Cell Keratin Secretion t Osteoblast RS CelllRS Like Desmosome Intracvt Vacuole rx. Lipoblast Intlam. Cell Pear Gland formation V Myoblast Plasma Cell Otherwise Specified: Pi Gf7J O  D 1.t ?t!7,. fiJrj 2. Cellular Difonnliation: Moderately I Well J. Nuclear Atvoia: Nuclear Appearance Aniso Nucleosis Hvoerchromatism Nucleolar Prominent Multinucleated Giant Cell Mitotic Activitv Nuclear Gnde Histological Diagnosis:,-..::.;::..;.;.::;.:...... ........ BYCONTRIBuroR ...,.,.. REPDRTOF FINDINGS rNTEGRAnov Poor x 0 I II III f IX  II J!f..  A--IUJal fAX 4P-Q, 0-3 t. STAFF FOR RESEARCH USE ONLY. 
IndexSpecimen labelClinical Site Case Ethnicity RaceClinical DiagnosisDOB mmddyyyySexDate of procuremen t 1 Colorectal cancer Colorectal cancer Anatomical SiteTumor LocationTissue Specificatio nSpecimen MatrixSpecimen FormatContainerNumber of containersAmountper containerUnit Colon Primary Tumor Tissue Frozen cryomold 1 260 mg Blood na normal Blood Frozen tube 1 4 ml Type of Procuremen tHistological description Grade TNM Stage TTNM Stage NTNM Stage MPrior Chemo  Hormonal ThChemo  Horm Th DetailsPrior Radiation Surgery Adenocarcinoma 3 3 1 0 no no no Blood draw na na na na na no no no Cellular Tumor  70 na -- - I I I I I I I I I I D 
Pathology Form !Specimen Informationl Collected by: Preserved by: Primary Tumor Organ Size Extension of Tumor Distance to NAT r6 em Lymph Nodes Location  Examined  Metastasized Distant Metastasis Organ Detailed Location Size Pathological Staging ND Me. Stage: Notes: 4  IMicroscopic Descriptionl Marker Result Value Date ER o Negative 0 Positive PR o Negative 0 Positive Her-2neu o Negative 0 Positive B-Cell Marker o Negative 0 Positive T-Cell Marker o Negative 0 Positive Other: o Negative 0 Positive Other: o Negative 0 Positive IFinal Pathology Repol1l Histological Dillgnosil:..,.  1ll;jl1!!:b.j!f.,,-r--------:---:::;:::- Comments:  ..  ... LlD.lITED DIAGNOSTIC PATHOLOGY FORM . Microscopic Appearance: . Islo ogical patlern: J H, l CELL DISTRIBUTION  . STRUCTURAL PATTERN  . Diffuse A Streami Mosaic ,. Storifonn Necrosis  Fibrosis Lymphc Infiltration C Palisadi!ll. Vascular Invasion J Cystic Degeneration Clusrerized f1 B1eedig Alveolar Fonnation IY Myxoid Chane Indian File I PsammomaCalcification 2. Cellular I eatures: Squamous  . Adenomatous  . Sanomatous  -LYmphomatous  . Squamoid Cell Glandular cell W ROllndeell . Large Cell ndleCell Cell Slrarificalion ItX fibroblasl Small Cell Keralin Secretion R Osteoblast RS CellRS Like Desmosome Intracy!, Vacuole IX Lipoblast Inflam. Cell Pearl Gland formation ! 1. Myoblast Plasma Cell Olhe!se SpeCid: DJ: 5 02-; rC7 p 76 ,Dz,.  Ui7h- tip! l.t1nf 7: t?A .  2. Cellular Dijerentiation: I Well Moderately Poor J. Nuclear Atypia: 0 Nuclear ADMaranee I I III Anfso Nucleosis rchromatlsm Nucleolar Prominent Multinucleated GianI Cell Mitotic Activitv Nud.or Grade r FOR RESEARCH USE ONLy. INTEGRATED REPORT OF FINDINGS BY CDNTRI8.TOR 
 SPECIMENS: A. RIGHT COLON  TERMINAL ILEUM DIAGNOSIS: RIGHT COLON AND TERMINAL ILEUM, RESECTION RIGHT HEMICOLECTOMY SPECIMEN: EXOPHYTIC INVASIVE MODERATELY DIFFERENTIATED ADENOCARCINOMA ARISING FROM TUBULOVILLOUS ADENOMA OF TRANSVERSE COLON WITH FULL MUSCLE WALL THICKNESS INVASION, EXTENSION TO SUBSEROSAL FAT AND METASTASES TO ONE OUT OF TWENTY SIX PERICOLIC LYMPH NODES 126. -SIZE OF TUMOR - 5.5x3.5x1.0 cm. -PROXIMAL, DISTAL AND RADIAL MAR GINS OF RESECTION - FREE OF TUMOR. -APPENDIX - NO SPECIFIC PATHOLOGIC CHANGES - NEGATIVE FOR TUMOR. -PORTION OF OMENTAL FAT - NO SPECIFIC PATHOLOGIC CHANGES. GI Cancer Template Tumor Size cm: 5.5x3.5x1.0 cm. GradeDifferentiati on: G2 moderate Invasion Depth: Subserosa not to perit. Surface Invasion VascLymphatic: absent Invasion Perineural: absent Extension to adjacent areas: no Margins: free Lymph nodes: N1Positive 126 Stage, Pathology: pT3 N1 Implants: absent Precursor: present - tubulovillous adenoma Non-neoplastic areas: NA SPECIMENS: A. RIGHT COLON  TERMINAL ILEUM CLINICAL HISTORY: Colon ca. GROSS DESCRIPTION: RIGHT COLON AND TERMINAL ILEUM, RESECTION: A right hemicolectomy specimen comprised of cecum, ascending and transverse colon and appendix and short segment of terminal ileum. Colon measures 34 cm in length and with internal circumference of 7-9 cm. Short segment of terminal ileum measures 3.5 cm in length. Situtated 5.5 cm from the distal resected margin transverse colon area 32 cm from proximal margin is a fungating tumor that occupies 80 of the mucosal circumference. The tumor measures 5.5x3.5x1.0 cm. On sections, tumor grossly infiltrates muscle wall without gross extension to subserosal fat. Rem ainder of colonic mucosa is grossly not remarkable. There is no identifiable polyps or diverticuli. Cecum is not remarkable. Appendix measures 11 cm in length and external diameter of 0.5 cm. Grossly, appendix is not remarkable. Attached portion of omentum measures 8x7x0.9 cm. Cut section shows no indurated focus. Approximately 5 lymph nodes are dissected ranging in size from 0.1 cm to 1x0.5x0.6 cm. Multiple sections submitted as follows: A1-A5: tumor A6: proximal ileal margin A7; distal colonic marg in A8: representative section of colonic mucosa distal to the tumor A9: representative section of colonic mucosa proximal to the tumor and ileocecal valve A11: four lymph nodes from portion near tumor A12: four lymph nodes from portion near tumor A13: four lymph nodes from portion near tumor A14: one serially sectioned lymph node from portion near tumor A15: five lymph nodes from middle portion of colon A16: five lymph nodes from middle portion of colon A17: one serially sectioned lymph node from middle portion of colon A18: five lymph nodes from ileocecal junction A19: six lymph nodes from ileocecal junction ADDENDUM: ANALYSIS OF MLH1 AND MSH2 PROTEIN EXPRESSION MLH1 Expression: Present MSH2 Expression: Present Tissue from this patient was retrieved from the archive and analyzed for these tumor markers. Expression of MLH1 and MSH2 in the tumor was evaluated by immunohistochemistry. Peritumoral lymphocytes serve as an internal positive control expressing both MLH1 and MSH2. Testing for Microsatellite Instability has been ordered. The results will be issued in a separate report. 
 page 1  1 page 1  1 page 1  1 page 1  1 page 1  1 page 1  1 Department of Cancer Pathology Department of Cancer Pathology Department of Cancer Pathology Department of Cancer Pathology Department of Cancer Pathology Department of Cancer Pathology Department of Cancer Pathology Department of Cancer Pathology Department of Cancer Pathology Department of Cancer Pathology Department of Cancer Pathology Department of Cancer Pathology Date Date Date Date Date ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon Internal invoice No.Internal invoice No.Internal invoice No.Internal invoice No. Cost of diagnosOc procedureCost of diagnosOc procedureCost of diagnosOc procedureCost of diagnosOc procedureCost of diagnosOc procedureCost of diagnosOc procedureCost of diagnosOc procedure ExaminaFon No.: ExaminaFon No.: PaOent: XXX PaOent: XXX Age: Gender : Gender : Gender : Gender : Gender : Gender : Material: 1. ParFal organ resecFon  sigmoid colon. Material: 1. ParFal organ resecFon  sigmoid colon. Material: 1. ParFal organ resecFon  sigmoid colon. Material: 1. ParFal organ resecFon  sigmoid colon. Material: 1. ParFal organ resecFon  sigmoid colon. Material: 1. ParFal organ resecFon  sigmoid colon. Material: 1. ParFal organ resecFon  sigmoid colon. Material: 1. ParFal organ resecFon  sigmoid colon. Material: 1. ParFal organ resecFon  sigmoid colon. Material: 1. ParFal organ resecFon  sigmoid colon. Material: 1. ParFal organ resecFon  sigmoid colon. Material: 1. ParFal organ resecFon  sigmoid colon. Material: 1. ParFal organ resecFon  sigmoid colon. Unit in charge : Unit in charge : Unit in charge : Unit in charge : Unit in charge : Unit in charge : Unit in charge : Unit in charge : Unit in charge : Unit in charge : Unit in charge : Unit in charge : Unit in charge : Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Material collected on: Material collected on: Material collected on: Material received Material received Material received Material received Material received Expected Ome of examinaOon: Expected Ome of examinaOon: Expected Ome of examinaOon: Expected Ome of examinaOon: Expected Ome of examinaOon: Expected Ome of examinaOon: Expected Ome of examinaOon: Expected Ome of examinaOon: Expected Ome of examinaOon: Expected Ome of examinaOon: Expected Ome of examinaOon: Expected Ome of examinaOon: Expected Ome of examinaOon: Clinical diagnosis: Clinical diagnosis: Clinical diagnosis: Clinical diagnosis: Clinical diagnosis: Clinical diagnosis: Clinical diagnosis: Clinical diagnosis: Clinical diagnosis: Clinical diagnosis: Clinical diagnosis: Clinical diagnosis: Clinical diagnosis: ExaminaOon performed on: ExaminaOon performed on: ExaminaOon performed on: ExaminaOon performed on: ExaminaOon performed on: ExaminaOon performed on: ExaminaOon performed on: ExaminaOon performed on: ExaminaOon performed on: Macroscopic descripOon : A 17 cm length of the large intesFne with a fragment of the mesentery sized 19 x 6 x 1.5 cm. A cauliower-shaped tumour sized 4.3 x 0.6 found in the mucosa. The lesion surrounds 100 of the intesFne circumference and narrows its lumen, is located 7 cm 7 cm away from the other one. The lesion macroscopically inltrates the intesFnal wall. Minimum side margin is 2.3 cm.Macroscopic descripOon : A 17 cm length of the large intesFne with a fragment of the mesentery sized 19 x 6 x 1.5 cm. A cauliower-shaped tumour sized 4.3 x 0.6 found in the mucosa. The lesion surrounds 100 of the intesFne circumference and narrows its lumen, is located 7 cm 7 cm away from the other one. The lesion macroscopically inltrates the intesFnal wall. Minimum side margin is 2.3 cm.Macroscopic descripOon : A 17 cm length of the large intesFne with a fragment of the mesentery sized 19 x 6 x 1.5 cm. A cauliower-shaped tumour sized 4.3 x 0.6 found in the mucosa. The lesion surrounds 100 of the intesFne circumference and narrows its lumen, is located 7 cm 7 cm away from the other one. The lesion macroscopically inltrates the intesFnal wall. Minimum side margin is 2.3 cm.Macroscopic descripOon : A 17 cm length of the large intesFne with a fragment of the mesentery sized 19 x 6 x 1.5 cm. A cauliower-shaped tumour sized 4.3 x 0.6 found in the mucosa. The lesion surrounds 100 of the intesFne circumference and narrows its lumen, is located 7 cm 7 cm away from the other one. The lesion macroscopically inltrates the intesFnal wall. Minimum side margin is 2.3 cm.Macroscopic descripOon : A 17 cm length of the large intesFne with a fragment of the mesentery sized 19 x 6 x 1.5 cm. A cauliower-shaped tumour sized 4.3 x 0.6 found in the mucosa. The lesion surrounds 100 of the intesFne circumference and narrows its lumen, is located 7 cm 7 cm away from the other one. The lesion macroscopically inltrates the intesFnal wall. Minimum side margin is 2.3 cm.Macroscopic descripOon : A 17 cm length of the large intesFne with a fragment of the mesentery sized 19 x 6 x 1.5 cm. A cauliower-shaped tumour sized 4.3 x 0.6 found in the mucosa. The lesion surrounds 100 of the intesFne circumference and narrows its lumen, is located 7 cm 7 cm away from the other one. The lesion macroscopically inltrates the intesFnal wall. Minimum side margin is 2.3 cm.Macroscopic descripOon : A 17 cm length of the large intesFne with a fragment of the mesentery sized 19 x 6 x 1.5 cm. A cauliower-shaped tumour sized 4.3 x 0.6 found in the mucosa. The lesion surrounds 100 of the intesFne circumference and narrows its lumen, is located 7 cm 7 cm away from the other one. The lesion macroscopically inltrates the intesFnal wall. Minimum side margin is 2.3 cm.Macroscopic descripOon : A 17 cm length of the large intesFne with a fragment of the mesentery sized 19 x 6 x 1.5 cm. A cauliower-shaped tumour sized 4.3 x 0.6 found in the mucosa. The lesion surrounds 100 of the intesFne circumference and narrows its lumen, is located 7 cm 7 cm away from the other one. The lesion macroscopically inltrates the intesFnal wall. Minimum side margin is 2.3 cm.Macroscopic descripOon : A 17 cm length of the large intesFne with a fragment of the mesentery sized 19 x 6 x 1.5 cm. A cauliower-shaped tumour sized 4.3 x 0.6 found in the mucosa. The lesion surrounds 100 of the intesFne circumference and narrows its lumen, is located 7 cm 7 cm away from the other one. The lesion macroscopically inltrates the intesFnal wall. Minimum side margin is 2.3 cm.Macroscopic descripOon : A 17 cm length of the large intesFne with a fragment of the mesentery sized 19 x 6 x 1.5 cm. A cauliower-shaped tumour sized 4.3 x 0.6 found in the mucosa. The lesion surrounds 100 of the intesFne circumference and narrows its lumen, is located 7 cm 7 cm away from the other one. The lesion macroscopically inltrates the intesFnal wall. Minimum side margin is 2.3 cm.Macroscopic descripOon : A 17 cm length of the large intesFne with a fragment of the mesentery sized 19 x 6 x 1.5 cm. A cauliower-shaped tumour sized 4.3 x 0.6 found in the mucosa. The lesion surrounds 100 of the intesFne circumference and narrows its lumen, is located 7 cm 7 cm away from the other one. The lesion macroscopically inltrates the intesFnal wall. Minimum side margin is 2.3 cm.Macroscopic descripOon : A 17 cm length of the large intesFne with a fragment of the mesentery sized 19 x 6 x 1.5 cm. A cauliower-shaped tumour sized 4.3 x 0.6 found in the mucosa. The lesion surrounds 100 of the intesFne circumference and narrows its lumen, is located 7 cm 7 cm away from the other one. The lesion macroscopically inltrates the intesFnal wall. Minimum side margin is 2.3 cm.Macroscopic descripOon : A 17 cm length of the large intesFne with a fragment of the mesentery sized 19 x 6 x 1.5 cm. A cauliower-shaped tumour sized 4.3 x 0.6 found in the mucosa. The lesion surrounds 100 of the intesFne circumference and narrows its lumen, is located 7 cm 7 cm away from the other one. The lesion macroscopically inltrates the intesFnal wall. Minimum side margin is 2.3 cm. Microscopic descripOon : Adenocarcinoma tubulare G2. InltraFo carcinomatosa tunicae muscularis priopriae. Excision lines clear of neoplasFc inltraFon.LymphonoduliFs reacFva lymphonodorum NO VIII.Microscopic descripOon : Adenocarcinoma tubulare G2. InltraFo carcinomatosa tunicae muscularis priopriae. Excision lines clear of neoplasFc inltraFon.LymphonoduliFs reacFva lymphonodorum NO VIII.Microscopic descripOon : Adenocarcinoma tubulare G2. InltraFo carcinomatosa tunicae muscularis priopriae. Excision lines clear of neoplasFc inltraFon.LymphonoduliFs reacFva lymphonodorum NO VIII.Microscopic descripOon : Adenocarcinoma tubulare G2. InltraFo carcinomatosa tunicae muscularis priopriae. Excision lines clear of neoplasFc inltraFon.LymphonoduliFs reacFva lymphonodorum NO VIII.Microscopic descripOon : Adenocarcinoma tubulare G2. InltraFo carcinomatosa tunicae muscularis priopriae. Excision lines clear of neoplasFc inltraFon.LymphonoduliFs reacFva lymphonodorum NO VIII.Microscopic descripOon : Adenocarcinoma tubulare G2. InltraFo carcinomatosa tunicae muscularis priopriae. Excision lines clear of neoplasFc inltraFon.LymphonoduliFs reacFva lymphonodorum NO VIII.Microscopic descripOon : Adenocarcinoma tubulare G2. InltraFo carcinomatosa tunicae muscularis priopriae. Excision lines clear of neoplasFc inltraFon.LymphonoduliFs reacFva lymphonodorum NO VIII.Microscopic descripOon : Adenocarcinoma tubulare G2. InltraFo carcinomatosa tunicae muscularis priopriae. Excision lines clear of neoplasFc inltraFon.LymphonoduliFs reacFva lymphonodorum NO VIII.Microscopic descripOon : Adenocarcinoma tubulare G2. InltraFo carcinomatosa tunicae muscularis priopriae. Excision lines clear of neoplasFc inltraFon.LymphonoduliFs reacFva lymphonodorum NO VIII.Microscopic descripOon : Adenocarcinoma tubulare G2. InltraFo carcinomatosa tunicae muscularis priopriae. Excision lines clear of neoplasFc inltraFon.LymphonoduliFs reacFva lymphonodorum NO VIII.Microscopic descripOon : Adenocarcinoma tubulare G2. InltraFo carcinomatosa tunicae muscularis priopriae. Excision lines clear of neoplasFc inltraFon.LymphonoduliFs reacFva lymphonodorum NO VIII.Microscopic descripOon : Adenocarcinoma tubulare G2. InltraFo carcinomatosa tunicae muscularis priopriae. Excision lines clear of neoplasFc inltraFon.LymphonoduliFs reacFva lymphonodorum NO VIII.Microscopic descripOon : Adenocarcinoma tubulare G2. InltraFo carcinomatosa tunicae muscularis priopriae. Excision lines clear of neoplasFc inltraFon.LymphonoduliFs reacFva lymphonodorum NO VIII. Histopathology diagnosis: Adenocarcinoma tubulare coli. Tubular adenocarcinoma of the colon. Gl, Dukes A, Astler - Coller BI, pT2, pNO.Histopathology diagnosis: Adenocarcinoma tubulare coli. Tubular adenocarcinoma of the colon. Gl, Dukes A, Astler - Coller BI, pT2, pNO.Histopathology diagnosis: Adenocarcinoma tubulare coli. Tubular adenocarcinoma of the colon. Gl, Dukes A, Astler - Coller BI, pT2, pNO.Histopathology diagnosis: Adenocarcinoma tubulare coli. Tubular adenocarcinoma of the colon. Gl, Dukes A, Astler - Coller BI, pT2, pNO.Histopathology diagnosis: Adenocarcinoma tubulare coli. Tubular adenocarcinoma of the colon. Gl, Dukes A, Astler - Coller BI, pT2, pNO.Histopathology diagnosis: Adenocarcinoma tubulare coli. Tubular adenocarcinoma of the colon. Gl, Dukes A, Astler - Coller BI, pT2, pNO.Histopathology diagnosis: Adenocarcinoma tubulare coli. Tubular adenocarcinoma of the colon. Gl, Dukes A, Astler - Coller BI, pT2, pNO.Histopathology diagnosis: Adenocarcinoma tubulare coli. Tubular adenocarcinoma of the colon. Gl, Dukes A, Astler - Coller BI, pT2, pNO.Histopathology diagnosis: Adenocarcinoma tubulare coli. Tubular adenocarcinoma of the colon. Gl, Dukes A, Astler - Coller BI, pT2, pNO.Histopathology diagnosis: Adenocarcinoma tubulare coli. Tubular adenocarcinoma of the colon. Gl, Dukes A, Astler - Coller BI, pT2, pNO.Histopathology diagnosis: Adenocarcinoma tubulare coli. Tubular adenocarcinoma of the colon. Gl, Dukes A, Astler - Coller BI, pT2, pNO.Histopathology diagnosis: Adenocarcinoma tubulare coli. Tubular adenocarcinoma of the colon. Gl, Dukes A, Astler - Coller BI, pT2, pNO.Histopathology diagnosis: Adenocarcinoma tubulare coli. Tubular adenocarcinoma of the colon. Gl, Dukes A, Astler - Coller BI, pT2, pNO. Compliance validated by: Compliance validated by: Compliance validated by: Compliance validated by: Compliance validated by: Compliance validated by: Compliance validated by: Compliance validated by: PESEL: XXX CONTACT YOUR DOCTOR WITH THIS REPORT! 
 Diagnosis  Diagnoses:  Right hemicolectomy specimen with a colon carcinoma, of 4 cm in size at its maximum diameter, located approximately in the middle of the colon and not extending any closer than 10 cm to the aboral resection margin, and of the histological type of a moderately differentiated colorectal adenocarcinoma. Invasive spread of the tumor as far as the level of the muscularis propria. A tubulovillous colonic mucosal adenoma, of 2 cm in size at its maximum diameter and located 1 cm aboral to Bauhins valve, with severe epithelial dysplasia synonym: high- grade intra -epithelial neoplasia and the remainder of the colonic mucosa also with individual tubular colonic mucosal adenomas with mild epithelial dysplasia synonym: low -grade intra -epithelial neoplasia. Appendix with post -inflammatory fibrosis of the wall and fibrosed obturation of the lumen. Oral and aboral resection margins and large omentum tumor -free. 46 mesocolic and mesenteric lymph nodes tumor -free and with uncharacteristic reactive changes. Tumor stage thus pT2 pN0 046; G2 See preliminary histological findings 
 SPECIMEN A. Apical lymph nodes B. Sigmoid and upper rectum C. Appendix CLINICAL NOTES PRE- OP DIAGNOSIS: Rectal cancer. GROSS DESCRIPTION A. Received in formalin labeled apical lymph node is a 0.8 x 0.5 x 0.3 cm yellow fatty tissue fragment which may be possible lymphoid tissue. The tissue is entirely submitted in one cassette. B. eived fresh subsequently fixed in formalin labeled sigmoid and upper rectum. The specimen grossly consists of a 20- cm long portion of colon which is stapled at the distal end inked black and opened at the proximal end inked blue. The serosa of the specimen is pink- tan smooth and glistening partially covered with abundant yellow lobular fat. Retroperitoneal reflection is located 6 cm from the distal margin. The specimen is opened to show a pink- tan smooth glistening mucosa with an average circumference of 5.5 cm. There is a large exophytic tumor closer to the distal end, measuring 5.3 x 6.0 x 1.0 cm. This is located 3.5 cm from the distal end. The distal end has a circumference of 7.5 cm and the tumor comes within 0.6 cm of being circumferential. The cut surface of the tumor shows invasion into the muscularis propria. However, no discrete invasion is grossly identified into the fat. This comes within 2.5 cm of the radial margin. A sample was taken for tissure procurement. The remainder of the mucosa is pink- tan smooth and glistening with normal to slightly dilated folds. No other discrete gross lesions are identified in the mucosa. Multiple lymph nodes are grossly identified in the fat which are firm and somewhat enlarged up to 1.7 cm in greatest dimension. Representative sections of the specimen are submitted as follows: Block 1 - representative luminal margin; block 2- 4 - representative section of tumor which includes tumor to normal and tumor into fat; block 5 - representative radial margin; block 6 - one possible lymph node bisected; block 7- 15 - whole possible lymph nodes. . C. The specimen consists of a 5.5 x 0.7 cm app which is partially covered pink- tan smooth glistening serosa and minimally yellow lobular fat. The specimen is sectioned to show an intact wall with an average thickness of 0.3 cm. The lumen ranges from pinpoint to 0.3 cm partially filled with green feces. Representative sections of the specimen tted in one cassette with the proximal end inked. MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION A. This single apical node is negative for metastatic disease, 01. B. This segment of colon contains an ulcerated, moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma, minimally extending into pericolonic fat. Please see the template below: Histologic type: Infiltrating adenocarcinoma. Histologic grade: Moderately differentiated. Primary tumor pT: pT3. Proximal margin: Negative for tumor. Distal margin: Negative for tumor. Circumferential radial margin: Negative for tumor. Distance of tumor from closest margin: The tumor is 3.5 cm from the distal margin. Vascular invasion: Not detected. Regional lymph nodes pN: As per parts A and B, a total of 48 lymph nodes are found, one of which contains metastatic disease, 148, pN1a. Non- lymph node pericolonic tumor: Negative. Distant metastasis pM: Cannot be assessed. C. Microscopic examination performed. 3,5,1 DIAGNOSIS A. Apical lymph node, excision - Single lymph node negative for metastatic disease, 01. B. Sigmoid and upper rectum, segmental resection - Segment of colon with infiltrating, moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma, extending into pericolonic fat. All margins are negative for tumor. Metastatic disease is present to 1 of 47 lymph nodes, 147. C. Appendix, appendectomy - Appendix - no significant pathology. --- End Of Report --- 
 Case I D Formatted Path Report LARGE INTESTINE TISSUE CHECKLIST Specimen type: Hemicolectomy Specimen size: Not specifiedTumor site: Hepatic flexureTumor size: 7 x 8 x 2 cmTumor features: None specifiedHistologic type: AdenocarcinomaHistologic grade: Moderately differentiatedTumor extent: Invades other organs specifyLymph nodes: 44 positive for metastasis Intraabdominal 44Margins: Not specifiedEvidence of neo-adjuvant treatment: Not specifiedAdditional pathologic findings: Not specifiedComments: Tumor invades the liver. 0 LateralityDate of Procurement NA  
L ARGE INTESTINE TISSUE CHECKLIST Specimen type: Excision of tumor Specimen size: Not specifiedTumor site: Sigmoid colonTumor size: 4 x 3 x 1 cmTumor features: None specifiedHistologic type: AdenocarcinomaHistologic grade: Moderately differentiatedTumor extent: Pericolonic tissuesLymph nodes: 16 positive for metastasis Intraabdominal 16Margins: UninvolvedEvidence of neo-adjuvant treatment: Not specifiedAdditional pathologic findings: Not specifiedComments: None
Diagnosis: This is a poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma of the colon descendingsigmoid colon of histopathological differentiation grade G3, with ulceration of the inner surface of the tumor, peritumorous, chronic recurrent concomitant inflammation, focal mucus formation, tumor infiltration in the parietal layers of the colon as fas as the subserous fatty connective tissue, with twelve local lymph node metastases 1218, with carcinomatous lymphangitis and carcinosis of the blood vessels. In addition t he overview slices from the resection margins show these to be tumor -free, and the sigmoid colon shows diverticulosis. According to the sections available, the tumor spread of the colon carcinoma corresponds to a tumor stage of pT3, pN2, MX, L1, V1. 
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY Surgical Pathology Report Diagnosis: Colon, right, resection Tumor Histologic Type: Adenocarcin oma with prominent mucinous and signet ring cell features; see comment. Histologic Grade: poorly differentiated Tumor Location: ascending colon Depth of Invasion: -Through muscularis propria into the pericolic soft tissue Lymphovascular Invasion: present, extensive Perineural Invasion: not identified Margins: Proximal margin: Negative for malignancy. Distal margin: Negative for malignancy Mesenteric margin: Negative for malignancy Distance of carcinoma from closest margin specify: tumor is 2.0 cm from the mesenteric margin. Regional Lymph Nodes: Twelve of fo urteen lymph nodes positive for metastatic poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma , 1.0 cm in greatest dimension, extracapsular extension present 1214. Additional pathologic findings: - Appe ndix with mucin and tumor cells within periappendiceal soft tissue and exten ding into muscularis propria of appendix. - Severe acute and chronic serositis with adhesions. AJCC PATHOLOGIC TNM STAGE: pT3 pN2b Note: This pathologic stage assessment is based on information available at the time of this report, and is subject to change pending clinical review and additional information. Comment: Immunohistochemical stains for MLH1, MSH2, and MSH6 a re performed. The tumor demonstrates appropriate nuclear staining for all three markers which is the normal phenotype and which does not su pport a diagnosis of hereditary non -polyposis colorectal cancer. Microsatellite instability testing will be performed by the Lab and reported separately. Clinical History: right colon cancer. Gross Description: Specimen fixa tion: formalin Parts of bowel received Specimen length: colon 17 cm in length, 6.7 cm in circumference; ileum 10.7 cm in length, 3.4 cm in circumference; appendix with a length of 3 .5 cm and a diameter of 0.9 cm Orientation: The distal colonic margi n is i nked black, the ileal margin is inked blue, the surrounding fat over the tumor is inked green. Tumor location: 4.2 cm from blue inked margin and 12.7 cm from black inked margin. Gross appearance of tumor: Ulcerated, hemorrhagic, firm, tanwhite Tumor dimensions: 7.5 cm x 5.5 cm x 5.0 cm Circumferential growth: 50 of luminal circumference involved Gross depth of invasion: Tumor invades grossly i nto the fat. There are multiple separate tumor nodulescandidate lymph nodes which are present in the perico lonic fat and measure up to 3.5 cm. Gross evidence of perforation through visceral peritoneum: no Luminal obstruction: approximately 70 Bowel circumference at tumor site: 4.5 cm Gross distance of tumor from margins: 4.2 cm from the blue inked mar gin, 12.7 cm from the black inked margin, 2.0 cm from perpendicular soft tissue margin Lymph nodes: per block summary Other remarkable findings: multiple tumor nodules and surrounding fat; The appendix wall is thickened 0.4 cm and the mucosal surface i s tan. The tip of the appendix is dilated with a maximum diameter of 1.1 c m. The internal surface is tanpink and regular. Tissue submitted for special investigation: yes, to Tissue Procurement Digital photograph taken: not taken Block summary: Inking scheme: ileal marginblue, colonic marginblack A1 - ileal margin, en face inked blue A2 - colonic margin, en face inked black A3 - soft tissuevascular margins overlying tumor A4 - representative sections of appendix cross sections A5 - representa tive section of tumor, perpendicular to mucosa A6 - representative section of tumor perpendicular to mucosa with pericolonic fat A7 - tumor with pericolonic fat A8 - tumor nodule with pericolonic fat inked green A9 - tumor nodule with pericolonic fat  inked green A10 - representative section of tumor A11 - representative section of tumor with pericolonic fat A12 - representative section of tumor A13 - three lymph node fragmentscandidate tumor satellites A14 - two lymph node fragments A15 - two lymph n ode fragments A16 - one lymph node fragment A17 - two lymph node fragments A18 - two lymph node fragments A19 - one lymph node fragment, bisected A20 - one lymph node fragment, bisected A21 - one lymph node fragment, bisected A22 - two lymph node fragments A23- A24 - one lymph node fragment, trisected A25 - two lymph node fragments A26 - three lymph node fragments A27 - four lymph node fragments A28 - tip of appendix, longitudinal Grossing Pathologist : Light Microscopy: Light microscopic examination is performed by Dr . For cases in which immunostains are pe rformed, the following applies: Appropriate internal andor external positive and negative controls have been evaluated. Some of the immunohistochemical reagents used in this case may be classified as analyte specific reagents ASR . These were developed and have performance characteristics determined by the These re agents have not been cleared or approved by the US Food and Drug Admini stration FDA. Th e FDA has determined that such clearance or approval is not nece ssary. These tests are used for clinical purposes. They should not be reg arded as investigational or for research. This laboratory is certifie d under the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments of alified to perform high complexity clinical laboratory testing. Signature Attending Pathologist: I have personally conducted the evaluation of the above specimens and have rendered the above diagnosises. 
Diagnosis: Colon resection material includes a moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma of the colorectal type, measuring a maximum of 2.5 cm, with infiltration of the pericolic fatty tissue with two regional lymph node metastases. Tumor -free colon resecti on margins. Tumor stage: pT3 pN1 213 pM1 clinically liver metastases; G2, L1, V0, clinically R2
Resected colon sigma with tumor -free oral and aboral resection margins, including a hyperplastic polyp and several tubular adenoma with mild to moderate dysplasia synonymously: mild intraepithelial neoplasia and with an ulcerated, moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma with infiltration of the perimuscular adipose tissue and with several lymph node metastases in the region G2, pT3, L1, V0, local R0, pN2, 525. Diagnosis:
  Clinical Diagnosis  History: PET avid lesions in sigmoid found as an incidental finding for evaluation of pneumonia. Colonoscopy with nearly obstructing 3 em mass in sigmoid showing invasive adenocarcinoma with LV invasion. specimens Submitted: 1: SP: Sigmoid colon 2: SP: Proximal anastomotic rins 3: SP: Distal anastomotic ring AMENDED DIAGNOSIS: 1. COLON, SIGMOIDt RESECTION: -TWO SEPARATE POCI OP INVASIVE ADENOCARCINOMA . -THE PIRST TUMOR IS MORE PROXIMAL, MOOERATELY DIFPBRBNTIATBD, AND MEASURES 5.8 x 4.9 X 1.8 CM. IT SHOWS FOCAL TUMOR BUDDING AND INVADES INTO THE MUSCULARIS PROPRIA pT2. THERE IS NO VASCULAR OR PBRINBURAL INVASION. -THB SECOND TUMOR IS 2. 4 CM DISTAL TO THE PIRST, MOOBRATBLY DIPPERBNTIATED, AND MEASURES 2.5 X l. 0 X 1. 0 CM. IT CONSISTS PREOOMINANTLY Oi! TOBOLOVILLOOS ADENOMA WITH INTRAMUCOSAL CARCINOMAt HOWEVER, THB PREVIOUS BIOPSY OP THIS LESION DOCUMENTED SUBMUCOSAL INVASION pTl AND VASCULAR INVASION. -METASTATIC CARCINOMA INVOLVES ONB OP BIGHTBBN LYMPH NOOBS 11.8 pN1. -RESECTION MARGINS ARB NBGATIVB. 2. COLON, PROXIMAL ANASTOMOSIS RING, EXCISION: UNREMARKABLE COLONIC MUCOSA, NBGATIVB i!OR CARCINOMA . 3. COLON, DISTAL ANASTOMOSIS RING, EXCISION: -UNREMARKABLE COLONIC MUCOSA, NEGATIVE POR CARCINOMA. Note: This document represents an amended version of the surgical pathology report originally issued on . That report is superseded by the present  Continued on next page            .-    -----.---  --.-.---  ---  Page 2 of 5 document. The amendment consists of the following change: ORIGINAL REPORT: Specimen Submitted: l, COLON, SIGMOID; RESBCTIONt -TWO SEPARATE POCl OF INVASIVE ENOCARCINOMA. -THE FIRST TUMOR IS MORE PROXIMAL, MODERATELY DIPPERENTIATEO, AND MEASURES 5.8 x 4. x 1.8 CM, IT SHOWS FOCAL TUMOR EUDOING AND INVBS INTO THB MUSCULARIS PROPIA pT2. THERE IS NO VASCULAR OR PERINEURAL INVASION. -THl! SECOND TUMOR IS 2, 4 CM OISTAL TO THE PIRST, MODERATELY DIFFERENTIATED, AND MEASURES 2.5 X 1.0 X 1,0 CM. IT CONSISTS PREOOMINANTLY OP TUBULOVILLODS RNOMA WITH INTRAMUCOSAL CARCINOMA; HOWEVER, THE PREVIOUS BIOPSY OP THIS LESION DOCUMRNTBO SUBMUCOSAL INVASION pTl AND VASCULAR INVASION, -THERE IS ONE LYMPH NODE IDENTIPIED 118 , -RESECTION MARGINS ARE NEGATIVE. AMENDED REPORT: Specimen submitted: 1. COLON, SIGMOID; RESECTION:  TWO SEPARATE POCI DP INVASIVE RNOCARCINOMA. -THR FIRST TUMOR IS MORE PROXIMAL, MODERATELY DIFFERENTIATED, AND MEASURES 5.8 x 4. x 1.8 CM. IT SHOWS FOCAL TUMOR BUDDING AND INVES INTO THE MUSCULARIS PROPRIA pT2. THERE IS NO VASCULAR OR PERINEURAL INVASION. -THE SECOND TUMOR IS 2,4 CM DISTAL TO THB FIRST, MODERATELY DIFFERENTIATED, AND MEASURES 2,5 X 1. 0 X 1. 0 CM, IT CONSISTS PREDOMINANTLY OP TUBULOVILLOUS RNOMA WITH INTRAMUCOSAL CARCINOMA; HOWEVER, THE PREVIOUS BIOPSY OF THIS LESION DOCUMENTED SUBMUCOSAL INVASION pTl AND VASCULAR INVASION. -METASTATIC CARCINOMA INVOLVES ONE OP BIGHTERN LYMPH NODES 118 pNl. -RESECTION MARGINS ARB NEGATIVE. I ATTEST THAT THE ABOVE DIAGNOSIS IS EASED UPON THB PERSONAL EXAMINATION OP THE SLIDES ANDOR OTHER MATERIAL BY THE PATHOLOGIST WHOSE NAME APPEARS ABOVE MINE, AND THAT I HAVE REVIEWED AND APPROVED THIS REPORT,  Report Electronically Signed Out  Gross Description:  continued on next page  ----------- ------------- --------------------------------- ---Page 3 of 5 1 . The specimen is xeceived fresb a is labeled sigmoid colon, suture distal  It consists of a sigmoid colon that measures 19 em in length and 7.5 em in diameter. The serosal surface is intact. The specimen is opened to reveal two fungating tumors, measuring 2.5 x 1 em 1 and 5.8 x 4.9 em 2. TUmor 1 is located 2.4 em distal from tumor 2 and is 4 em from tbe distal margin and 15 em from the proximal margin. Tumor 2 is located 5 em from the distal margin and 5 em from the proximal margin. Serial sectioning reveals tumor 2 invasion to be a depth of 1.8 em, which is more tban 3 em fxom the serosal surface. TUmor 1 does not sbow gross invasion and appears to be confined to tbe stalk. A round tumor nodule witb necrosis, measuring 1.5 x 1.5 x 1.5 ern is identified in tbe serosa beneath tumor 2 discontinuous from tbe tumor  The remaining mucosa is unremarkable . Pericolic adipose tissue is submitted for lymph node dissection . Entire tumor 1 and representative sections of tbe remainder of the specimen are submitted . TPS is submitted. summary of sections: PM -proximal margin DM -distal margin RM -radial margin Tl -tumorl T2 -tumor2 u -uninvolved mucosa TN -tumor nodule BuN -bisected lymph node 2 .The specimen is received in formalin wrapped around an anastomotic pin, labeled Proximal anastomotic ring and consists of a ring of pink tan soft tissue measuring 2.5 x 2,5 x 1,4 em. Multiple sutures and staples are attached . The MUcosal surface is pink tan and focally bemorri.ic : The sutures and staples are removed and tbe soft tissue is entiret subrnitted. Summary of sections; U -undesignated 3  Tbe specimen is received in formalin, labeled  distal anastomotic ring and consists of a ring of pink tan soft tissue measuring 1.5 x 1.5 x 0.8 em. Multiple sutures and staples are attached. The mucosal surface is pink tan and focally hemorrhagic. The sutures and staples are removed and tbe soft tissue is entirely submitted . Summary of sections; U -undesignated Summary of Sections : Part 1: SP: Sigmoid colon  Continued on next page  ----------- .... -..-.... ----.. ... .. ..  ...  ................... .............................. ---... :.::: .. --::::.:: - .. -.. -.... ----Page 4 of 5 Block Sect. Site PCB 5 BLN 9 1 DM l 6 LN 18 1 PM 1 3 T1 3 5 T2 s , . . 1 TN 1 Part 2 I SP: Proximal anastomotic ring Block Sect. Site PCs 1 u 1 Part 3: SP: Distal anastomotic ring Block Sect. Site PCB 1 t1 1 11mendments Amend Date: Original Diagnosis: 1. COLON, SIGMOID; RESECTION: -TWO SEPARATE POCI OP INVASIVE ADENOCARCINOMA. -THE PIRST TUMOR IS MORE PROXIMAL, MODERATELY DIPPBRENTIATBD, AND MEASURES 5.8 x 4.9 x 1.8 CM. IT SHOWS POCAL TUMOR BUDDING AND INVADES INTO THE MUSCULARIS PROPRIA pT2. THERE IS NO VAScULAR OR PERINEURAL INVASION. -THE SECOND TUMOR IS 2. 4 CM DISTAL TO THE PIRST, MODERATELY DIPPBRENTIATED, AND MEASURES 2,5 X 1.0 X 1.0 CM. IT CONSISTS PREDOMINANTLY OP Tt1BULOVILLOS ADENOMA WITH INTRAMUCOSAL CARCINOMA; HOWEVER, THE PREVIOUS BIOPSY OP THIS LESION DOCUMENTED SUBMUCOSAL INVASION pTl AND VAScULAR INVASION. -THERE IS ONB LYMPH NODE IDENTIPIBD 118. -RESECTION MARGINS ARE NEGATIVE. 2. COLON, PROXIMAL ANASTOMOSIS RING, EXCISION: -UNREMARKABLE COLONIC MUCOSA, NEGATIVE POR CARCINOMA . 3. COLON, DISTAL ANASTOMOSIS RING, EXCISION: -UNREMARKABLE COLONIC MUCOSA, NEGATIVE POR CARCINOMA .  Continued on next page  .;  ------------ -------;;. -::;; ------. :;.  .. .: -:-::::. ----------Page 5 of 5  Report Electronically Signed out  Sgned out by Referring Physician Contacted was notified via email on  End of Report  
Right hemicolectomy preparation with tumor -free oral and aboral resection margins, as well as an ulcerated, moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma in the region of the Bauhins valve and the bordering cecum with infiltration of the perimuscular adipose tissue, and with four regional lymph node metastases G2, pT3 L1 V0 local R0 pN2 423. Diagnosis:
O TCGA : Sample ID : - Diagnosis: This is an invasive, moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma colon carcinoma, G 2 with penetration of all layers of the wall p T 3 and penetration into lymphatic vessels L 1, furthermore, with reference to the resection margins, with free resection margins in the region of the mucosa, with reference to the central ligature, with normal adipose connective tissue and normal portions of vessels, with reference to the lymph nodes, with two metastases from the carcinoma described above and the additional polyps are tubulovillous adenomas, of which one also exhibits a transition to a carcinoma G 2, with infiltration of the muscularis p T 2. furthermore, there are two lymph node metastases 214 and free resection margins and free ligature portions. Tumor classification: ICDO-DA- M 81403 G2 p T 3, L 1, p N 1, M x.Lb- 0-3 ttvs  l.03 CQcF 3130 1,, LI8-a UUID:IFD84A23-A230-46SB-9D2p-83928659BA60 Redacted III IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIiiiiiillllllll lllllllllllllllll Jill fillililitilitillill It lilt IN 
urgical Pathology: UUID:D948972B-SF4F-4C2A-9072-7D4A7E1BSBOE TCGA-QG-A5YX- 01A-PR Redacted III110 IIIIVIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII11111I III 1111111111 IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII111 III IIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII SURGICAL PATHOLOGY Accession : :ollected:,4derc tvcczvncL 1 JL 5  3 0i kr u 21 li3 PATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS A. COLON, SIGMOID, SIGMOIDECTOMY: - INVASIVE ADENOCARCINOMA -TUMOR SITE: SIGMOID COLON -TUMOR SIZE: -GREATEST DIMENSION: 7.6 CM -ADDITIONAL DIMENSIONS: 3.2 CM X 2 CM -HISTOLOGIC GRADE: LOW-GRADE WELL TO MODERATELY DIFFERENTIATED -MICROSCOPIC TUMOR EXTENSION: -TUMOR INVADES THROUGH MUSCULARIS PROPRIA INTO THE SUBSEROSAL ADIPOSE TISSUE -MARGINS: -PROXIMAL, DISTAL AND RADIAL MARGINS UNINVOLVED BY INVASIVE CARCINOMA -DISTANCE OF INVASIVE CARCINOMA FROM CLOSEST MARGIN: 2 MM FROM RADIAL MARGIN -TREATMENT EFFECT: NOT KNOWN -LYMPHOVASCULAR INVASION: PRESENT -PERINEURAL INVASION: NOT IDENTIFIED -TUMOR DEPOSITS: NOT IDENTIFIED -LYMPH NODES: NO METASTATIC CARCINOMA IDENTIFIED IN THIRTEEN LYMPH NODES 013 SEE COMMENT B. COLON, DESCENDING, NEW PROXIMAL MARGIN, EXCISION: -UNREMARKABLE COLONIC MUCOSA AND WALL C. COLON, DESCENDING, PROXIMAL DONUT, EXCISION: -UNREMARKABLE COLONIC MUCOSA AND WALL D. RECTUM, DISTAL DONUT. EXCISION: -UNREMARKABLE COLONIC MUCOSA AND WALLE. SPLEEN, SPLENECTOMY: -BENIGN PARENCHYMA WITH SUBCAPSULAR HEMORRHAGE PATHOLOGIC STAGING: Primary Tumor pT: pT3 Regional Lymph Nodes pN: pNO Distant Metastasis pM: Not applicable Pathologic Staging: IIA Staff Pathologist Comment Please see surgical report for complete information regarding microsatellite instability testing, which reveled positive staining by tumor for MSH-2, MSH-6, PMS-2, and MLH-l. The specimen was examined twice in order to identify a total of thirteen lymph nodes 013. Intraoperative Consultation Intraoperative Gross Consultation Diagnosis Part A: Sigmoid colon, sigmoid colectomy: -Tumor grossly located 2.5 cm from proximal margin -Verbally reported to Staff Pathologist Pathology Resident Pertinent Clinical Information Pertinent HistoryOperative Findings:-year-old with history of sigmoid colon cancer. Tattooed sigmoid mass resected with appropriate margins greater than 3 cm. Gross Description Specimen Material: A- Sigrnoid colectomy - stitch distal, B- Descending colon - new proximal margin- long silk suture, C- Proximal donut from descending colon, D- Distal donut from rectum, E- Spleen. The case is received in five parts, each labeled with the patients name medical record number and given accession number , and it is accompanied by a requisition form labeled with the samename and accession number. Part A: Received fresh labeled with the patient s name and SIGMOID COLECTOMY GROSS MARGIN, STITCH DISTAL is a 26.0 cm long section of sigmoid colon with an average diameter of 3-4cm .The specimen is received stapled at both ends ,and there is a stitch at the distal end, as oriented by the surgeon .The radial margin is inked black .The serosal surface is smooth, yellow, with abundant attached peri-sigmoidal fat. The mucosa is tan with normal plications .A 7.6 x 3.2 cm tan -brown fungating mass in present within the lumen ,located 2.5 cm from the nearest margin proximal margin. The mass extends grossly to the serosa with a maximal depth of 2.0 cm, and is solid ,tan, with a central clear mucinoid area. Multiple bright yellow oval lymph nodes ranging from 0.2 to 1.0 cm are identified. Representative sections are submitted as follows: A 1: four presumptive lymph nodes A2: representative section of proximal margin ,en face A3: representative section of distal margin ,en face A4: uninvolved colon A5-A7: tumor to greatest depth of invasion A8-All: tumor A 12: five lymph nodes A 13: five lymph nodes A14: five lymph nodes A 15: two lymph nodes A 16: four lymph nodes At 7: two lymph nodes A 18: tumor Part B: Received in formalin labeled with the patients name and NEW PROXIMAL MARGIN is a 1.6 cm long and 1.7 cm diameter piece of tan-pink colon. The long stitch identifies the new proximal margin, as oriented by the surgeon, which is received stapled. The serosa is smooth and pink. The mucosa is tan, smooth and normally plicated. Cassette Summary: BI: margin. en face Part C: Received in formalin labeled PROXIMAL DONUT FROM DESCENDING COLON is a 2 x 2 x 0.5 cm tan-pink mucosal donut with attached blue Prolene suture. The mucosal surface is tan and edematous with petechial hemorrhage identified. No discrete masses are found. A representative section is submitted in C. Part D: Received in formalin labeled DISTAL DONUT FROM RECTUM is a I x 1x 0.8 cm tan-pink, mucosal donut. The mucosal surface is edematous and displays petechial hemorrhage. No discrete masses are identified. A representative section is submitted in D. Part E: Received in formalin labeled SPLEEN is a 78 gram, 9.0 x 6.0 x 2.8 cm tan-pink to pink-purple spleen with little attached hilar fat. The capsular surface displays leathery granularity and is gray-maroon, with a 3.2 x 2.2 cm focus of subcapsular, dark red-brown blood. The cut surface displays homogenous tan-red parenchyma without lesions. The cut surface of the subcapsular lesion shows an organizing subcapsular hematoma. No other discrete lesions are identified. Representative sections are submitted in cassettes: E 1: subcapsular hematoma E2: parenchyma Pathology Assistant Microscopic Description A-E: Performed. The staff pathologist listed below reviewed this case. Pathology Resident Electronically Signed Out Staff Pathologist crag ria s ovs ro13 --- - sae o::crepar,ryI.. --J Pror Malignnnry Ni .tury -  3. DualSychronou. pnm- N ---1----,-- c se Ftrd j:  FI DISCUALIF .Lp  are er inuiau YDatHwewee
 SPECIMENS: A. TERMINAL ILEUM AND RIGHT COLON B. GALLBLADDER DIAGNOSIS: A. RIGHT COLON AND TERMINAL ILEUM, RESECTION: - MODERATELY DIFFERENTIATED INFILTRATING COLONIC ADENOCARCINOMA 3.1 CM EXTENDING INTO SUBSEROSAL FAT. SEE TEMPLATE. - SEVENTEEN BENIGN LYMPH NODES 017 - MULTIPLE TUBULAR ADENOMAS - SURGICAL MARGINS, SMALL BOWEL AND APPENDIX ARE NOT INVOLVED B. GALLBLADDER, EXCISION: - CHRONIC CHOLELITHIASIS. COLORECTAL CANCER TEMPLATE Specimen Type: Right hemicolectomy Tumor Site: Ascendin g Colon Tumor Configuration: Exophytic Tumor Size: 3.1 x 2.5 x 0.6 cm Histological Type: Adenocarcinoma Histological Grade: Well differentiated Extent of Invasion: Focal subserosal adipose tissue Margins: Uninvolved Distance to Closest Margi n: Approximately 1.5 cm, radial Angiolymphatic Invasion: Indeterminate Perineural Invasion: Absent Additional Findings: Multiple tubular adenomas Extent of Resection: R0: Complete Lymph Nodes: Negative 017 Implants: Absent Pathological Stage: pT2 N0 MX SPECIMENS: A. TERMINAL ILEUM AND RIGHT COLON B. GALLBLADDER CLINICAL HISTORY: None given INTRAOPERATIVE CONSULTATION DIAGNOSIS: FSA: Colon, right and terminal ileum, resection: 3 cm mass in ascending colon-10 cm from distal margin and 14 cm from proximal margin. By Dr, GROSS DESCRIPTION: A. TERMINAL ILEUM AND RIGHT COLON Received fresh is a curved segment of colon measuring approximately 24cm in length with a diameter up to 9.5cm. The serosal surface is unremarkable and there is an attached appendix measuring 6 cm in length with a diameter of 1.0cm. The appendix shows no gross abnormalities. The specimen is opened and the ileum measures 7.3 x 4.2 cm with the ascending colon measuring 19.5 x 8.2 cm. There is a 3.1 x 2.5 cm oval sessile firm mass present in the ascending colon which is located 6.2 cm from the ileocecal junction, 10.0 cm from the distal colonic margin and 14.0 cm from the proximal margin. The mesocolonic fat is inked black and on sectioning the mass, it appears to invade into the submucosa. There are additional polyps located in the ascending colon, ranging in size from 0.3 to 0.6cm. Representative sections are submitted as follows: A1: proximal margin A2: distal margin A3: appendix A4: polyp s A5-A9: mass including the deep margin A10-A15: possible lymph nodes, ranging in size from 0.2 to 1.0cm. A16: representative section of normal colon and normal ileum A17: representative section of ileocecal junction B. GALLBLADDER Received in formal in and labeled as gallbladder is an opened pink -tan gallbladder, measuring 7.5 x 4.0 x 1.2cm. The serosal surface is smooth and is grossly unremarkable. The mucosal surface has a pink-tan coloration and a slightly granularpolypoid appearance. The gallbladder walls measure up to 0.2cm. No masses or lesions are seen. Also submitted is an irregularly shaped black -gold stone measuring approximately 7.0 x 5.0 x 4.2cm. Representative sections are submitted in blocks B1-B2. 
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY Surgical Pathology Report Diagnosis: FSA, A: Vaginal mucosal, posterior, biopsy TCGA-AY -4071 -Benign vaginal squamous mucosa and submucosal stroma, no carcinoma identified. B: Ovary, left, oophorectomy -Benign cysts, no carcinoma identified. C: Ovary, right, oophorectomy -Benign cysts, no carcinoma identified. D: Colon, distal sigmoid and rectum, lower anterior resection Tumor Histologic Type: Adenocarcinoma Histologic Grade: Moderately differentiated Depth of Invasion: Into submucosa. Muscularis propria present, not involved by invasive carcinoma. Lymphatic Invasion: Not identified Venous Invasion: Not identified Perineural invasion: Not identified Margins: Proximal margin: Negative Distal margin: Negative Circumferential radial margin: Negative Distance to closest margin: 2.0 ern distal Regional lymph nodes: 04 Additional pathologic findings: None AJCC Stage: pTl pNO pMx Note: This pathologic stage assessment is based on information available at the time of this report, and is subject to change pending clinical review and additional information. E: Colon, terminal ileum and proximal right, resection -Adenomatous polyps tubular adenomas 4, surgical margins not involved. -No invasive carcinoma identified. -Lymph nodes, pericolic no metastatic carcinoma identified 08. Intraoperative Consult Diagnosis: Frozen section was requested by FSAl: Vagina, posterior, biopsy -Squamous lined fibrous nodule -No carcinoma identified Frozen Section Pathologist: Clinical History: rectal moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma, also tubulovillous adenoma in cecum Gross Description: Specimen A was received fresh for frozen section, labeled posterior vaginal mucosa nodule for frozen section and consists of a 1.5 x 0.7 em redtan soft tissue fragment. The specimen is bisected and submitted for frozen section in block FSAl, NTR. Specimen B is received in a formalin-filled container labeled left ovary and consists of a 21.3 gram, 3.5 x 2.5 x 2.3 em multicystic ovary. The external surface is thin, smooth and almost translucent pale tan. The cut surface shows cystic multicystic structures filled with clear serous fluid. There is a small amount of fallopian tube which measures 2.5 em in length and 0.6 em in cross sectional diameter. Representative sections of ovary and tube are submitted in blocks Bl and B2. Specimen C is received in a formalin-filled container labeled right ovary and consists of a 33.0 gm, 5.0 x 4.0 x 4.0 em multicystic ovary. The external surface of the ovary shows a large translucent cystic structure. The ovary is bivalved to reveal a cystic structure filled with clear serous fluid. There is a small segment of fallopian tube, which measures 2.5 em in length and 0.5 em in cross sectional diameter. Representative sections of ovary and tube are submitted in blocks Cl and C2. Specimen D: Specimen fixation: Formalin Parts of bowel received: Distal sigmoid colon and rectum with a portion of perianal skin Specimen length: 26.0 em and up to 6.0 em in open circumference Orientation: Inking: proximalgreen, stitch marking distal anteriorred, bowel lengthyellow Tumor location: Distal anterior Gross appearance of tumor: There is a superficial granular fungating area, which measures 3.0 x 3.0 em. In the center of this area is a surgical defect where probable tissue procurement occurred in the operating room. This defect is inked with blue ink. Tumor dimensions: 3.0 x 3.0 x 0.5 em. Circumferential growth: Approximately 50 of luminal circumference involved. Gross depth of invasion: Tumor grossly appears to invade the submucosa but not through the muscularis propria. Gross evidence of perforation through visceral peritoneum: No Luminal obstruction: None Bowel circumference at tumor site: 6.0 em Gross distance of tumor from margins: 2.0 em from distal and 20.5 em from proximal Lymph nodes: 21 lymph nodes ranging from 0.1 x 0.1 x 0.1 em to 1.5 x 1.5 x 1.0 em in maximum dimension. Other remarkable findings: In the central area there is a small 3mm polyp which is 12 em from the distal end and 12 em from the proximal end. Tissue submitted for special investigation: Tumor was taken by Dr.in the OR for tissue procurement facility and normal tissue was banked in the gross room for tissue procurement facility. Digital photograph taken: Block Summary: Inking: Distal anteriorred, proximalgreen, entire length of bowelyellow, defect in central tumorblue D1 -Perpendicular sections of distal anterior at site of stitch and also is the closest area to tumor D2-D4 -Distal margin en face D5 -Proximal margin en face D6-D17 -Entire block tumor D18 -Small polyp D19 -Representative section of proximal colon D20 -Two lymph node candidates D21 -Two lymph node candidates D22 -Three lymph node candidates D23 -Three lymph node candidates D24 -Two lymph node candidates D25 -Three lymph node candidates D26 -Three lymph node candidates D27 -Two lymph node candidates D28 -T1w lymph node candidates Specimen E: Specimen fixation: Formalin Parts of bowel received: Terminal ileum and proximal right colon Specimen length: 25.0 em, 12.0 em is terminal ileum and 12.0 em is right colon Orientation: Inking: terminal ileum resection marginblue, right colon resection marginblack, inner external surface is green beneath the polyp. Tumor location: There is a pedunculated polyp in the cecum, which measures 1.5 x 1.5 x 1.0 em. Two tanbrown granular flat polyps in the right colon, which measures 1.5 x 1.0 x 0.2 em and 1.2 x 0.8 x 0.1 em. There is a 4th slightly raised polyp in the right colon, which measures 0.4 em in diameter. Gross appearance of tumor: See above. Tumor dimensions: There is a pedunculated polyp in the cecum, which measures 1.5 x 1.5 x 1.0 em. Two tanbrown granular flat polyps in the right colon, which measures 1.5 x 1.0 x 0.2 em and 1.2 x 0.8 x 0.1 em. There is a 4th slightly raised polyp in the right colon, which measures 0.4 em in diameter. See above. Circumferential growth: Approximately 10 of luminal circumference involved. Gross depth of invasion: Tumor does not invade the submucosa and is primarily superficial. Gross evidence of perforation through visceral peritoneum: No Luminal obstruction: None Bowel circumference at tumor site: 10.5 em Gross distance of tumor from margins: The polyp in the cecum is 10 em from the colon and 13.5 em from the terminal ileum. The closest flat polyp is 6.7 em from the right colon margin and the other flat polyp is 15.0 em from the terminal ileum margin. The smallest slightly raised polyp is 2.0 em from the right colon margin. Lymph nodes: 15 lymph nodes, ranging from 1 x 1 x 1 mm to 1.5 X 1.0 x 1.0 em in maximum dimension. Other remarkable findings: The appendix is attached and appears grossly unremarkable and measures 6.0 em in length and up to 0.8 em from cross sectional diameter. There is also a blue discoloration at the right colon margin which is 1.0 em from the margin. This area is either possible tattooing or submucosal hemorrhage. Both of these areas are submitted E12-E14. Tissue submitted for special investigation: none Digital photograph taken: no Block Summary: Inking: terminal ileum resection marginblue, right colon resection marginblack, inner external surface is green beneath the polyp El -Terminal ileum en face E2-E3 -Right colon margin en face E4 -Tip of appendix, bisected E5 -Representative cross sections of appendix E6-E8 -Polyps in the cecum, entirely submitted E9 -The largest flat polyp ElO -Smallest raised polyp Ell -Second flat polyp El2-El4 -Discolorations in the right colon El4 -Representative section of terminal ileum El6 -Representative section of normal right colon El7 -One lymph node, bisected El8 -One lymph node, bisected El9 -Two lymph nodes E20 -One lymph node, bisected E21 -Three lymph node candidates E22 -Three lymph node candidates E23 -Two lymph node candidates E24 -Three lymph node candidates P.A.: Light Microscopy: Light microscopic examination is performed by The frozen section diagnosis is confirmed. Multiple sections show invasion into submucosa. No sections show MP invasion. 
Diagnosis diagnoses : Resection material from sigmoid colon shows a colon carcinoma characterized histologically as a moderately differentiated colorectal adenocarcinoma, extending to within 6.5 cm of a resection margin at most and measuring 4 cm in diam eter at the widest point. Infiltrative tumor spread within all parietal layers of the colon to the bordering mesocolic fatty tissue. In addition, the mucous membrane of the colon has a small tubulovillous adenoma with moderate epithelial dysplasia synonym : low -grade epithelial neoplasia. The oral and aboral resection margins are tumor -free. Twenty -two mesocolic local lymph nodes are tumor -free with uncharacteristic reactive lesions. The tumor stage is pT3 pN0 022 L0V0; G2 
 SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT SPECIMEN Right hemicolectomy CLINICAL NOTES PRE- OP DIAGNOSIS: Hepatic flexure cancer POST- OP DIAGNOSIS: Same GROSS DESCRIPTION Received fresh in a container labeled right hemicolectomy is a segment of bowel consisting of 6 cm of terminal ileum with contiguous 23 cm of proximal colon. The serosal surface is glistening and tan- pink, and there is a moderate amount of attached adipose tissue. There is an unremarkable appendix present, measuring 6.5 cm long x 0.7 cm in diameter. On cut surface, it is without focal lesion, without gross evidence of inflammation. The bowel measures 3.6 cm and 8 cm in circumference at the proximal and distal resection margins respectively. The bowel is opened, and there is a circumscribed 5.3 x 5 cm rubbery white- pink mass located 11 cm proximal to the distal margin. A portion of tumor and of normal tissue are submitted for tissue procurement per the clinical requested. On sectioning, the tumor has a maximum thickness of 1.6 cm, and grossly extends through the musuclaris propria and into surrounding adipose tissue. It is 1 cm from the outer surface of the specimen. The remainder of the bowel wall averages 0.5 cm thick and has a tan- pink glistening mucosa with a normal pattern and folds. The adipose tissue is dissected, and soft tan lymph nodes are identified up to 1.8 cm in greatest dimension. RS- 17, following fixation. BLOCK SUMMARY: 1 - proximal and distal resection margins; 2- 6 - tumor, including relation to uninvolved tissue; 7 - ileocecal valve; 8 - random colon; 9 - appendix; 10- 12 - multiple lymph nodes per block; 13- 15 - one sect ed lymph node per block; 16,17 - sectioned largest lymph node. MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION The following template summaries the findings in this case: Histologic type: Adenocarcinoma of the colon Histologic grade: Moderately differentiated Primary tumor pT: Adenocarcinoma invades through the full thickness of the bowel wall and into surrounding adipose tissue pT3. Proximal margin: Negative Distal margin: Negative Circumferential radial margin: Negative Distance of tumor from closest margin: See gross description Vascular invasion: Not identified Regional lymph nodes pN: pN1c. Twenty- one negative lymph nodes are identified and they are negative for malignancy. However in block 12, on deeper levels, there is a tumor nodule identified in fat without histologic evidence of residual lymph node tissue, and given the presence of this tumor deposit, this is pN1c. Non- lymph node pericolonic tumor: See above Distant metastasis pM: pMX Other findings: Appendix without specific diagnostic abnormalities. DIAGNOSIS Terminal ileum, appendix, and right colon, excision - Moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma of the colon, invading through the full thickness of the muscularis propria and into surrounding adipose tissue see microscopic description. - Margins negative for malignancy. - Tumor deposit identified in pericolonic fat, and twenty- one lymph nodes negative for malignancy pN1c. ific malities. --- End Of Report --- 
1. to 4.: Colon sigmoid resection material shows tumor-free oral and aboral resection margins and includes an ulcerated, moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma with infiltration of the perimuscuar fatty tissue, with two regional lymph node metastases and penetration of the peritoneum 1. and with serosa 2. and liver metastases 3. and 4. G2, pT4 Ll va pN1217 pMl HEPPER.
Diagnosis: Resected colon sigma sample with tumor -free oral and aboral resection margins, with a tubular adenoma displaying moderate dysplasia synonym: low -grade intraepithelial neoplasia and including a moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma with in filtration of the lamina muscularis propria. No local lymph node metastasis G2, pT2 L0 V0 R0 pN0 015.
 .... Clinical Diagnosis  History: with history of rectal cancer. Specimens Submitted: 1: COLON, SIGMOID; RESECTION: 2: SP: Proximal ring 3: SP: DIstal ring DIAGNOSIS: 1. COLON, SIGMOID; RESECTION:: Tumor Type: Adenocarcinoma Histologic Grade: Moderately differentiated Tumor Location: Sigmoid colon Tumor Size: Length is 6.5 cm Width is 4.5 cm Maximal thickness is 2.5 cm Tumor Budding: Absent Increased Tumor Infiltrating Lymphocytes: Absent Precursor Lesions: Tubulovillous adenoma Deepest Tumor Invasion: Muscularis propria Gross Tumor Perforation: Not identified Lymphovascular Invasion: Not identified Large Venous Invasion: Not Identified Perineural Invasion: Not identified Surgical Margins: Free of tumor PolypsMucosa Dysplasia away from the carcinoma: Tubular adenoma; number: 1  Continued on next page  Non-Neoplastic Bowel: Unremarkable Lymph Nodes: Number with metastasis: 0 Total number examined: 31 Tumor deposits in pericolorectal soft tissue: Not Identified Tumor Staging AJCC 7th Edition: pT2 Tumor invades muscularis propria Lymph Node Stage AJCC 7th Edition: N0 No regional lymph node metastasis -------------------------------------------------------- NOTE: RESULTS OF IMMUNOHISTOCHEMICAL STAINING FOR DNA MISMATCH REPAIR PROTEINS ARE AS FOLLOWS: MLH1: STAINING PRESENT IN TUMOR MSH2: STAINING PRESENT IN TUMOR MSH6: STAINING PRESENT IN TUMOR PMS2: STAINING PRESENT IN TUMOR CONCLUSION:IMMUNOHISTOCHEMICAL STAINING FOR THE TESTED DNA MISMATCH REPAIR PROTEINS IS RETAINED IN THE TUMOR. 2. COLON, PROXIMAL RING; EXCISION: - BENIGN COLONIC TISSUE. - A DETACHED FRAGMENT OF ADENOMATOUS MUCOSA IS NOTED. 3. COLON, DISTAL RING; EXCISION: - BENIGN COLONIC TISSUE. Some of the immunohistochemistry and ISH tests were developed and their performance characteristics were determined by the Department of Pathology. They have not been cleared or approved by the US Food and Drug Administration. The FDA has determined that such clearance or approval is not necessary. These tests are used for clinical purposes. They should not be regarded as investigational or for research. This laboratory is certified under the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments of  as qualified to perform high complexity clinical laboratory testing. I ATTEST THAT THE ABOVE DIAGNOSIS IS BASED UPON MY PERSONAL EXAMINATION OF THE SLIDES ANDOR OTHER MATERIAL, AND THAT I HAVE REVIEWED AND APPROVED THIS REPORT. Gross Description: 1. The specimen is received fresh and is labeled Sigmoid. It consists of an undesignated sigmoid colon 19.5 cm in length and ranges in circumference from 6.2 to 8.0 cm with attached pericolonic fat 17.3 x 8.5 x 2.5 cm. The  Continued on next page  ------------------------------------------------------------ Page 3 of 4 serosal surface is pink, glistening and intact. The presumed distal resection margin is inked black and presumed proximal resection margin is inked red. The specimen is opened to reveal an exophytic, bosselated, tumor  6.5 cm in length and 4.5 cm in width that is located 10.0 cm from the proximal margin and 4.5 cm from the distal margin. Serial sectioning reveals the tumor has a depth of 2.5 cm. Thorough sectioning show that the tumor appears to be limited to the muscularis propria without invasion beyond the muscle. There is 2nd tan polypoid mass , located 1.5 cm from the tumor which is sampled. The remaining mucosa is grossly unremarkable. Pericolic and perirectal adipose tissue is thoroughly examined for lymph nodes, and all possible nodes are submitted. Representative sections are submitted. The tumor area is extensively sampled. TPS is submitted. Summary of sections: PM - proximal margin, shave DM - distal margin, shave T tumor P- polypoid mass U - uninvolved mucosa LN - lymph nodes BLN - bisected lymph node TU more sections from the tumor 2. The specimen is received in formalin, labeled Proximal ring and consists of a silver metal anastomotic pin measuring 7.5 x 2.8 x 1.5 cm. At the center of the pin, a blue plastic piece is noted. A ring of pink tan soft tissue is attached measuring 2.3 x 2.2 x 1.1 cm. The mucosal surface is pink tan and focally hemorrhagic and the serosal surface is pink tan and smooth. Several sutures and staples are noted. The sutures and staples are removed and the soft tissue is entirely submitted. Summary of sections: U--undesignated 3. The specimen is received in formalin, labeled Distal ring and consists of a ring of pink tan soft tissue measuring 2.2 x 1.9 x 0.8 cm. Multiple sutures and staples are attached. The mucosal surface is pink tan and focally hemorrhagic. The sutures and staples are removed and the soft tissue is entirely submitted. Summary of sections: U--undesignated Summary of Sections: Part 1: COLON, SIGMOID; RESECTION:  Continued on next page  ------------------------------------------------------------ Page 4 of 4 Block Sect. Site PCs 1 BLN 2 1 DM 2 7 Ln 21 1 P 1 1 PM 2 11 TU 14 1 U 1 Part 2: SP: Proximal ring Block Sect. Site PCs 1 U 8 Part 3: SP: DIstal ring Block Sect. Site PCs 1 U 5  End of Report  
 DiagnosisDiagnoses:  Right hemicolectomy specimen with an ulcerated colon carcinoma of the histological type of a moderately differentiated colorectal adenocarcinoma, measuring 6.5 cm in its largest diameter, localized 10 cm aborally from the ileoc olic valve and almost encircling the intestinal wall. Invasive tumor spread into all intestinal wall layers as far as the adjacent fat tissue and to the level of the subserosa. Oral and aboral resection margins, greater omentum and appendix tumor -free. App endix with evidently postinflammatory parietal fibrosis. Tumor stage therefore: pT3, R0; G2 A follow -up report will be made on the lymph node status after special preservation and preparation.  Follow -up report:  Forty -four lymph nodes of up t o 1.2 cm in size in the vicinity of the tumor were dissected out from the pericolic fatty tissue after clarification with acetone. Microscopically these were all tumor -free. In conclusion or in summary, therefore, a stage of pT3 pN0 044 L0 V0 R0 is es tablished. 
 Diagnosis: 1. : Right hemicolectomy preparation with tumor -free resection margins; in the area of Bauhins valve and the ascending colon there are a few tubular and tubulovillous adenomas with focal to severe dysplasia synonymously: profound intraepithelial neoplasia, together with a poorly differentiated, mucinous adenocarcinoma in the area of the right colic flexure with infiltration of the perimuscular adipose tissue and without regional lymph node metastases G3, pT3 L0 V0 R0 pN0 026. 2. : Further tubula r mucosal adenoma with moderate dysplasia synonymously: mild intraepithelial neoplasia. 3. : Highly differentiated papillary mesothelioma without any sign of malignancy in the area of the small intestinal serous membrane. 
SPECIMEN DESIGNATED RIGHT COLON, PARTIAL COLEClQMY 27 em: ADENOCARCINOMA, with focal mucinous features. low grade, moderately differentiated -4.5 em in greatest dimension . Tumor is located in right colon, forms a polypoid mass, is ulcerative, is diffusely infiltrative, and has an infiltrating border. rumor invades through mUSCUlaris propria into serosa. Proximal and distal resection margins are negative for tumor. Invasive tumor is 7 cm from proxima l resection margi.n, 13 em from distal resection margin, and 0.2 cm from radial resection margin. Lymphovascular invasion is not identified . Extramural venous invasion is not identified. Perineural invasion is not identified . Peritumoral lymphoid response including Crohns -like infiltrate .is mild. Residual adenoma is absent. Regional lymph nodes positive: total: 0:22. AJCC Classification 6th edition: pT3a NO MX. CLINICAL DATA: History: Not provided Operation: Lap-assisted right colectomy Operative Findings: Not provided Clinical Diagnosis : Colon ca TISSUE SUBMITTED: AI. Right colon GROSS DESCRIPTION: The specimen is received fresh, labeled with the patient s name, unit number, and IFI. Right colon, and consists of a right colectomy specimen including terminal ileum 7.6 em in length x 2.0 cm in diameter with a stapled proximal resectio n margin 11.0 em and ascending colon 20.0 em in length x 3.5 em in diameter with a distal stapled resection margin 4.1 em. No appendix is identified. The proximal resection margin is inked bJv and the distal resection margin is inked black. A tanblack tattoo 6.2 em x 4.0 em is approxima tely 60 em distal from the jleocecal valve. A tanpink polypoid, centrally ulcerating mass 4. 5 K 1.0 K 3,0 em is present 1.0 em from the proxima l resection margin, 13.0 em from the distal resection margin, and 1.5 em distal from the ileoceca l valve. The serosa underlying the mass is puckere d and is inked orange . The mass abuts the radial margin . fhe area surrounding the tumor 11.0 x 5.0 cm is tanwhite and slightly firmer in consistency than the uninvolved mucosa . The pericolonic adipose tissue contains multiple lymph node candidates ranging up to 1.2 em in greatest dimension. All Jymph node candidates are submitted . The specimen is photographed prior to fixation . Representative sections of the tumor and normal mucosa are submitted for tissue banking . Micro Micro Micro Micro Proximal stapled resection margin, perpendicular section, 1 frag, A2: Distal stapled resection margin, perpenll;.;r section, A3-A4: Deepest extent of mass, 1 frag each, AS: Mass in relation to normal mucosa, 1 frag, A6: Representative section of pale mucosa, 1 frag,  A7: Representative section of uninvolved muc frags, AS-All: node candidates, multi frags, I11III 1 fra9, By hisher signature below, the senior physician certifies that heshe personally conducted a microscopic examination gross only exam if so stated of the described specimens and rendered or confirmed the diagnosis es related thereto. 
Sample ID : Diagnosis: Resectate of the colon transverse colon with inclusion of an ulcerated, moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma, of a maximum diameter of 6 cm, with infiltration of all layers of the wall, foc into the pericolic fatty tissue. Tumor-free resection margins, tumor-free ornental fat tissue and tumor-free lymph nodes. Tumor classification: G2, pT3 NO 032 LO VO; RO CI:-D-3 rt--fAkVA,, C,4 c1 K-1 319614 0 UUID:3A6D9Ae7-C421-4CB7- AC68-2A6FC3BFDOSD TCGA-AA-A00L-01A-PR Redacted Ili IIIIIIIIIIIIiIIIII I IIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIII I IIIIIII 111111 III III VIII IIIIIIIIIIIIII IIll IIII IIII IIVIII I flllll IIlill II IIIIII III Diasn Uiw-pa Price Mellnanq Histary tedYn ffEHIPM DlsuepePrlm ryTumr Site DiuMP-V per lnitlalt ice.DualSY fifOus Pri wy ha. B cirtN:eviewed:DISCVIu
The material in Block A is an invasive carcinoma, and adenocarcinoma of the colon, characterized here as a serrated adenocarcinoma of grade G2 with infiltration of the muscularis pT2 with vascular infiltration L1, V1. In the region of the mucosa, it also s hows free mucosal margins with a regular mucosa, submucosa and muscularis and regular fatty connective tissue in the direction of the central ligature. The material in Block D is additonally a polyp characterized as a serrated adenoma without dysplasia no t a high -grade neoplasia, free lymph nodes with a marked resorptive lymphadenitis, in relation to the macroscopically named adjacent node likewise a regular lymph node and in relation to Block H the formation of a diverticulum, here typically in the sense of a pseudodiverticulum with an eversion between the gaps in the muscle wall. In relation to the the central resection margin: mature fatty connective tissue with dilated vessels and, in relation to the lymph nodes, a chronic resorptive lymphadenitis. Tumor classification: ICDO -DA-M G 2 pT2 L1, V1 pN0 0 of 18  1 with complete local excision 
COLON : ADENOCARCINOMA 11.8 em, poorly differentiated, with neuroendocrine and signet ring cell features and focal mucin production. Tumor extends through the muscularis propria and involves the visceral peri toneu.ll. The proximal, distal, and radial resection margins are free of tumor. Lymphovascu lar invasion is present . Appendix with fibrous obliteration and peri-appendiceal adhesions. METASTATIC CARCINOMA in one of thirty two 1:32 lymph nodes. CLINICAL DATA: History: None Operation : Rt ,osis with the patients name, unit number, and 1 Rt colon tumor bank , and consists of a partial colectomy specimen consisting of termina l ileum 8 em length, 3.1 em diameter, colon 27 em length, 4.5 em djameter, appendix 4.5 em length, 0.5 em diameter, proxjmal stapled resection margin 4.1 em, and distal stapled resection margin 4.6 em. There is a redtan, ulcerating, necrotic mass 11.8 x 5.5 x 5.0 em with raised, rolled borders at the ileocecal valve, extending through the wall creating a large, matted mass within the pericolonic fat, extending to and possibly involving the appendix . The mass is 8 em from the proximal stapled resection margin, and 23 em from the distal stapled resection margin. A tan mucosal polyp 0.4 x 0.3 x 0.2 em is present 5.5 em distal to the aforemen tioned ileocecal valve mass, and comes to within lB em of the distal stapled resection margin, and 17 em of the proxima l stapled resection margin . The remaining colonic mucosa is tanpink with normal folds. The ileomucosa is tanpink and velvety, with focally flattened folds adjacent to the mass. Multiple tanwhite, indurated to tanpink, rubbery lymph nodes are identified, ranging from 0.5-1.5 em in greatest dimension. Representative sections of the tumor and normal colon, as .... eLl as half of a lymph node are submitted to the tumor bank for special studies . Micro Micro Micro Micro Micro Micro Micro Micro Micro Micro Micro Micro Micro 1: proximal stapled resection margin, en face, 2: distal stapled resection margin, en face, 2 frag, 3: appendix tip -bisected, and m::i::d:;:!:::;::l3::  4: appendiceal as in relation to 5-6: ileocecal valve mass, deepest 7: mass in relation to right colon, 1 frag, 8: mass in relation to ileocecal valve and 9: additional colon mucosal polyp, 2 frag, 10: remainin lf of grossly positiv e 1 frag,  five single whole lymph nodes, 5 trag, seven single .... hole lymph nodes, 7 eight single .... hole lymph nodes, B six single .... holelymph nodes, 6 frag, five 5ignle whole lymph nodes, 5 frag, 
 Examination: Histopathological examination TCGA-05-6541 Material: , Partial organ resection -descending colon Physician in charge: Material collected on: Material received on: Expected time of examination: up Clinical diagnosis: Cancer of the splenic flexure. Examination performed on: Macroscopic description: 17 em length of Intestine with peri intestinal fat tissue sized 16 x 6 x 3 em. Two cauliflower tumours sized 3.5 x 3 x 1.5 and 2 x 3 x 1.5 em found in the mucosa. The tumours lie In one line covering the whole circumference. Lesions placed 4 em from on of the excision llnes and 2.5 em from the opposite one. Macroscopically, the lesion invades through the muscular membrane. Minimum side margin 3 em. Microscopic description: Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare G1. lnfiltratio carcinomatosa tunicae muscularis propriae et telae adiposae pericolicae. Minimum side margin is 3 em. Excision lines free of neoplastic lesions. Sinus histiocytosis lymphonodorum No XIII. Histopathological diagnosis: Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare bifocal coli. Tubulopapillar bifocal adenocarcinoma of the colon. G1, Dukes B, Astler-Coller B2, pT3, pNO. CONTACT YOUR DOCTOR WITH THIS REPORT! 
 SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT SPECIMEN Right colon resected at CLINICAL NOTES PRE- OP DIAGNOSIS: Right colon cancer GROSS DESCRIPTION Received fresh labeled right colon is a previously unopened 30 cm. segment of proximal right colon with attached 8 cm. of distal ileum surfaced by smooth tan pink serosa with a copious amount of attached, mesocolon, mesentery, and unremarkable omentum. No appendix is identified. The proximal and distal margins measure 4.0 and 8.0 cm. in circumference respectively. On opening, there is a moderately well circumscribed, 4.5 x 3.8 cm. rubbery tan white- pink tumor mass located 9 cm. distal to the ileocecal valve. A portion of tumor and a portion of normal mucosa are submitted for tissue procurement as requested. On sectioning, the tumor has a maximal thickness of 1.8 cm., grossly extending into the muscularis to within 0.6 cm. of the inked free radial serosal surface. A few soft tan ink polypoid lesions measuring up to 0.6 cm. in greatest dimension are present throughout the remainder of the colon. The ileal and remaining colonic mucosa is unremarkable, glistening tan pink with regular folds and the walls average 0.5 cm. in thickness. Multiple soft to slightly rubbery pale tan to tan- red tissues in keeping with lymph nodes measuring up to 1.2 cm. in greatest dimension are recovered from the attached mesocolon and mesentery. Representative sections are submitted in 15 blocks as labeled. RS- 15. BLOCK SUMMARY: 1 - Proximal and distal margins; 2, 3 - tumor full thickness to inked free radial serosal surface; 4 - central tumor; 5 - tumor to normal mucosa; 6, 7 - colonic polyps; 8 - ICV; 9 - random colon; 10- 12 - six whole lymph nod per cassette; 13- 15 - one bisected lymph node per cassette. MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION Histologic type: Adenocarcinoma Histologic grade: Poorly differentiated Primary tumor pT: Tumor invades through the full thickness of the wall into the adjacent adipose tissue, pT3 Proximal margin: Negative for tumor Distal margin: Negative for tumor Circumferential radial margin: Tumor is not identified at the outer serosal surface of the specimen. Distance of tumor from closest margin: 21 cm from distal margin of excision Vascular invasion: Present in pericolonic tissue Regional lymph nodes pN: Two of twenty- three lymph nodes positive for metastatic carcinoma 223, pN1b Non- lymph node pericolonic tumor: Perineural invasion by tumor is identified Distant metastasis pM: pMX Other findings: Separate adenomatous polyps are identified within the colon. 5x1 DIAGNOSIS Colon, right, excision - Invasive poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma see tumor characteristics in the colon resection template in the microscopic description. --- End Of Report --- 
 TCGA-A6-2678 SPECIMEN A. Transverse colon Appendix B. CLINICAL NOTES PRE-OP DIAGNOSIS: Please check for microsatelite instability on specimen A GROSS DESCRIPTION of A. Received fresh, subsequently fixed in formalin labeled transverse colon is a transverse colon dth an abundant portion omentum attached. The omentum is 70.0 x 15.0 x 1.2 em. The omentum specimen is sectioned and palpated to show no discrete gross lesions is identified. Also attached to the specimen is a transverse colon with partially covered abundant yell01 lobular fat. The specimen 35.0 and stapled at both ends and arbitrarily inked blue and black. The specimen is predominantly covered with abundant lobular fat and the previously described omentum. The specimen is opened to show pink-tan smooth glistening mucosa with normal to slightly flattened folds having an average circumference of 6.5 em. There is a large exophytic lesion v1hich is 4. 5 x 4. 2 x 1. 0 ern and is 14 ern from the nearest margin of excision. The tumor grossly involves the muscularis propria and into the serosa. There is a 1.2 em. umbilication in the serosa. The tumor is contiguous with this site. The cut surface of the tumor shows no discrete invasion into the fatty tissue. It comes within 7 em. of the radial margin. No other are discrete gross lesions are identified in the mucosa. Lymph nodes grossly identified. Representative sections of the specimen are submitted as follows: Block 1 -representative section of omentum; 2 -representative luminal margins; block 3-5 -representative section of tumor normal, tumor serosa and tumor fat; block 6 - representative radial margin; block 7 -representative normal; 8-11 -nine possible lymph nodes each; 12 -one possible lymph node GROSS DESCRIPTION bisected; 13 -one possible lymph node sectioned. RS-13. B. Received in formalin labeled appendix is a 9.5 x 0.5 em. appendix which is partially covered v1ith pink tan smooth glistening serosa and abundant yellow lobular fat. The specimen is sectioned to show an intact wall with an average thickness of 0.3 ern. The lumen ranges from pinpoint to 0.4 em. and is partially filled with green fluid feces. No discrete gross lesions are identified. Representative sections of the specimen are submitted in one cassette with the proximal ending. RSl. MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION Histologic type: Adenocarcinoma. Histologic grade: The tumor is predominantly moderately differentiated with focal poorly differentiated carcinoma identified. Primary tumor pT : The tumor extends through the wall into the adjacent pericolonic tissue, pT3. Proximal margin: Negative for tumor. Distal margin: Negative for tumor. Circumferential radial margin: Tumor comes to within 0.1 em of the serosal surface of the specimen; the radial margin is negative. Distance of tumor from closest margin: 14 em Vascular invasion: Not identified. Regional lymph nodes pN: Two of 26 lymph nodes positive for metastatic carcinoma 226. Distant metastasis pM: pMx. 5xl, 2xl DIAGNOSIS A. Colon, transverse, excision -Invasive adenocarcinoma see tumor characteristics in the microscopic description. Tumor is submitted for microsatellite instability testing and an addendum will be issued when the report is received. B. Appendix, appendectomy -Appendix 1ith fibrous obliteration of the tip. 
 page 1  1 page 1  1 page 1  1 page 1  1 page 1  1 Department of Cancer Pathology Department of Cancer Pathology Department of Cancer Pathology Department of Cancer Pathology Department of Cancer Pathology Department of Cancer Pathology Department of Cancer Pathology Department of Cancer Pathology Department of Cancer Pathology Department of Cancer Pathology Department of Cancer Pathology copy No. 5 Date: Date: Date: Date: ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon ExaminaFon No.: ExaminaFon No.: PaKent: XXX PaKent: XXX PESEL: XXX PESEL: XXX PESEL: XXX PESEL: XXX Age: Gender : Gender : Gender : Gender : Gender : Material: 1. Total organ resecFon  sigmoid colon. Material: 1. Total organ resecFon  sigmoid colon. Material: 1. Total organ resecFon  sigmoid colon. Material: 1. Total organ resecFon  sigmoid colon. Material: 1. Total organ resecFon  sigmoid colon. Material: 1. Total organ resecFon  sigmoid colon. Material: 1. Total organ resecFon  sigmoid colon. Material: 1. Total organ resecFon  sigmoid colon. Material: 1. Total organ resecFon  sigmoid colon. Material: 1. Total organ resecFon  sigmoid colon. Material: 1. Total organ resecFon  sigmoid colon. Material: 1. Total organ resecFon  sigmoid colon. Unit in charge: Unit in charge: Unit in charge: Unit in charge: Unit in charge: Unit in charge: Unit in charge: Unit in charge: Unit in charge: Unit in charge: Unit in charge: Unit in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Material collected on: Material collected on: Material collected on: Material received on: Material received on: Material received on: Material received on: Material received on: Expected Kme of examinaKon: Expected Kme of examinaKon: Expected Kme of examinaKon: Expected Kme of examinaKon: Expected Kme of examinaKon: Expected Kme of examinaKon: Expected Kme of examinaKon: Expected Kme of examinaKon: Expected Kme of examinaKon: Expected Kme of examinaKon: Expected Kme of examinaKon: Expected Kme of examinaKon: Clinical diagnosis: Tumour of the sigmoid colon tumour. Clinical diagnosis: Tumour of the sigmoid colon tumour. Clinical diagnosis: Tumour of the sigmoid colon tumour. Clinical diagnosis: Tumour of the sigmoid colon tumour. Clinical diagnosis: Tumour of the sigmoid colon tumour. Clinical diagnosis: Tumour of the sigmoid colon tumour. Clinical diagnosis: Tumour of the sigmoid colon tumour. Clinical diagnosis: Tumour of the sigmoid colon tumour. Clinical diagnosis: Tumour of the sigmoid colon tumour. Clinical diagnosis: Tumour of the sigmoid colon tumour. Clinical diagnosis: Tumour of the sigmoid colon tumour. Clinical diagnosis: Tumour of the sigmoid colon tumour.  ExaminaKon performed on: ExaminaKon performed on: ExaminaKon performed on: ExaminaKon performed on: ExaminaKon performed on: ExaminaKon performed on: ExaminaKon performed on: ExaminaKon performed on: ExaminaKon performed on: Macroscopic descripKon : A 18 cm length of the large intesFne with a piece of mesentery and fat Fssue sized 23 x 10.5 x 3 cm. A cauliower- shaped, parFally ulcerous tumour sized 7.5 x 5.5 x 3 cm found in the mucosa sized 4.5 x 4 x 1.3 cm. The lesion surrounds 100 of the intesFne circumference and narrows its lumen, is located 4.4 cm from one of the incision lines and 5.9 cm from the other one. The lesion inltrates macroscopically the whole thickness of the intesFne wall and periintesFnal Fssues.Macroscopic descripKon : A 18 cm length of the large intesFne with a piece of mesentery and fat Fssue sized 23 x 10.5 x 3 cm. A cauliower- shaped, parFally ulcerous tumour sized 7.5 x 5.5 x 3 cm found in the mucosa sized 4.5 x 4 x 1.3 cm. The lesion surrounds 100 of the intesFne circumference and narrows its lumen, is located 4.4 cm from one of the incision lines and 5.9 cm from the other one. The lesion inltrates macroscopically the whole thickness of the intesFne wall and periintesFnal Fssues.Macroscopic descripKon : A 18 cm length of the large intesFne with a piece of mesentery and fat Fssue sized 23 x 10.5 x 3 cm. A cauliower- shaped, parFally ulcerous tumour sized 7.5 x 5.5 x 3 cm found in the mucosa sized 4.5 x 4 x 1.3 cm. The lesion surrounds 100 of the intesFne circumference and narrows its lumen, is located 4.4 cm from one of the incision lines and 5.9 cm from the other one. The lesion inltrates macroscopically the whole thickness of the intesFne wall and periintesFnal Fssues.Macroscopic descripKon : A 18 cm length of the large intesFne with a piece of mesentery and fat Fssue sized 23 x 10.5 x 3 cm. A cauliower- shaped, parFally ulcerous tumour sized 7.5 x 5.5 x 3 cm found in the mucosa sized 4.5 x 4 x 1.3 cm. The lesion surrounds 100 of the intesFne circumference and narrows its lumen, is located 4.4 cm from one of the incision lines and 5.9 cm from the other one. The lesion inltrates macroscopically the whole thickness of the intesFne wall and periintesFnal Fssues.Macroscopic descripKon : A 18 cm length of the large intesFne with a piece of mesentery and fat Fssue sized 23 x 10.5 x 3 cm. A cauliower- shaped, parFally ulcerous tumour sized 7.5 x 5.5 x 3 cm found in the mucosa sized 4.5 x 4 x 1.3 cm. The lesion surrounds 100 of the intesFne circumference and narrows its lumen, is located 4.4 cm from one of the incision lines and 5.9 cm from the other one. The lesion inltrates macroscopically the whole thickness of the intesFne wall and periintesFnal Fssues.Macroscopic descripKon : A 18 cm length of the large intesFne with a piece of mesentery and fat Fssue sized 23 x 10.5 x 3 cm. A cauliower- shaped, parFally ulcerous tumour sized 7.5 x 5.5 x 3 cm found in the mucosa sized 4.5 x 4 x 1.3 cm. The lesion surrounds 100 of the intesFne circumference and narrows its lumen, is located 4.4 cm from one of the incision lines and 5.9 cm from the other one. The lesion inltrates macroscopically the whole thickness of the intesFne wall and periintesFnal Fssues.Macroscopic descripKon : A 18 cm length of the large intesFne with a piece of mesentery and fat Fssue sized 23 x 10.5 x 3 cm. A cauliower- shaped, parFally ulcerous tumour sized 7.5 x 5.5 x 3 cm found in the mucosa sized 4.5 x 4 x 1.3 cm. The lesion surrounds 100 of the intesFne circumference and narrows its lumen, is located 4.4 cm from one of the incision lines and 5.9 cm from the other one. The lesion inltrates macroscopically the whole thickness of the intesFne wall and periintesFnal Fssues.Macroscopic descripKon : A 18 cm length of the large intesFne with a piece of mesentery and fat Fssue sized 23 x 10.5 x 3 cm. A cauliower- shaped, parFally ulcerous tumour sized 7.5 x 5.5 x 3 cm found in the mucosa sized 4.5 x 4 x 1.3 cm. The lesion surrounds 100 of the intesFne circumference and narrows its lumen, is located 4.4 cm from one of the incision lines and 5.9 cm from the other one. The lesion inltrates macroscopically the whole thickness of the intesFne wall and periintesFnal Fssues.Macroscopic descripKon : A 18 cm length of the large intesFne with a piece of mesentery and fat Fssue sized 23 x 10.5 x 3 cm. A cauliower- shaped, parFally ulcerous tumour sized 7.5 x 5.5 x 3 cm found in the mucosa sized 4.5 x 4 x 1.3 cm. The lesion surrounds 100 of the intesFne circumference and narrows its lumen, is located 4.4 cm from one of the incision lines and 5.9 cm from the other one. The lesion inltrates macroscopically the whole thickness of the intesFne wall and periintesFnal Fssues.Macroscopic descripKon : A 18 cm length of the large intesFne with a piece of mesentery and fat Fssue sized 23 x 10.5 x 3 cm. A cauliower- shaped, parFally ulcerous tumour sized 7.5 x 5.5 x 3 cm found in the mucosa sized 4.5 x 4 x 1.3 cm. The lesion surrounds 100 of the intesFne circumference and narrows its lumen, is located 4.4 cm from one of the incision lines and 5.9 cm from the other one. The lesion inltrates macroscopically the whole thickness of the intesFne wall and periintesFnal Fssues.Macroscopic descripKon : A 18 cm length of the large intesFne with a piece of mesentery and fat Fssue sized 23 x 10.5 x 3 cm. A cauliower- shaped, parFally ulcerous tumour sized 7.5 x 5.5 x 3 cm found in the mucosa sized 4.5 x 4 x 1.3 cm. The lesion surrounds 100 of the intesFne circumference and narrows its lumen, is located 4.4 cm from one of the incision lines and 5.9 cm from the other one. The lesion inltrates macroscopically the whole thickness of the intesFne wall and periintesFnal Fssues.Macroscopic descripKon : A 18 cm length of the large intesFne with a piece of mesentery and fat Fssue sized 23 x 10.5 x 3 cm. A cauliower- shaped, parFally ulcerous tumour sized 7.5 x 5.5 x 3 cm found in the mucosa sized 4.5 x 4 x 1.3 cm. The lesion surrounds 100 of the intesFne circumference and narrows its lumen, is located 4.4 cm from one of the incision lines and 5.9 cm from the other one. The lesion inltrates macroscopically the whole thickness of the intesFne wall and periintesFnal Fssues. Microscopic descripKon : Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare G2. InltraFo carcinomatosa tunicae muscularis propriae et serosae coli et telae adiposae mesenterii pericolicae. Of note is a massive inammatory invasion, mainly plasmocyFc, in the tumour in its surroundings. IntesFne ends free of neoplasFc lesions. Minimum side margin is 0.1 cm. IntesFne ends free of neoplasFc lesions. Metastases carcinomatosae in lymphonodis No IIIXXXIV. InltraFo carcinomatosa capsulae lymphonodorum et telae adiposae perinodalis.Microscopic descripKon : Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare G2. InltraFo carcinomatosa tunicae muscularis propriae et serosae coli et telae adiposae mesenterii pericolicae. Of note is a massive inammatory invasion, mainly plasmocyFc, in the tumour in its surroundings. IntesFne ends free of neoplasFc lesions. Minimum side margin is 0.1 cm. IntesFne ends free of neoplasFc lesions. Metastases carcinomatosae in lymphonodis No IIIXXXIV. InltraFo carcinomatosa capsulae lymphonodorum et telae adiposae perinodalis.Microscopic descripKon : Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare G2. InltraFo carcinomatosa tunicae muscularis propriae et serosae coli et telae adiposae mesenterii pericolicae. Of note is a massive inammatory invasion, mainly plasmocyFc, in the tumour in its surroundings. IntesFne ends free of neoplasFc lesions. Minimum side margin is 0.1 cm. IntesFne ends free of neoplasFc lesions. Metastases carcinomatosae in lymphonodis No IIIXXXIV. InltraFo carcinomatosa capsulae lymphonodorum et telae adiposae perinodalis.Microscopic descripKon : Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare G2. InltraFo carcinomatosa tunicae muscularis propriae et serosae coli et telae adiposae mesenterii pericolicae. Of note is a massive inammatory invasion, mainly plasmocyFc, in the tumour in its surroundings. IntesFne ends free of neoplasFc lesions. Minimum side margin is 0.1 cm. IntesFne ends free of neoplasFc lesions. Metastases carcinomatosae in lymphonodis No IIIXXXIV. InltraFo carcinomatosa capsulae lymphonodorum et telae adiposae perinodalis.Microscopic descripKon : Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare G2. InltraFo carcinomatosa tunicae muscularis propriae et serosae coli et telae adiposae mesenterii pericolicae. Of note is a massive inammatory invasion, mainly plasmocyFc, in the tumour in its surroundings. IntesFne ends free of neoplasFc lesions. Minimum side margin is 0.1 cm. IntesFne ends free of neoplasFc lesions. Metastases carcinomatosae in lymphonodis No IIIXXXIV. InltraFo carcinomatosa capsulae lymphonodorum et telae adiposae perinodalis.Microscopic descripKon : Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare G2. InltraFo carcinomatosa tunicae muscularis propriae et serosae coli et telae adiposae mesenterii pericolicae. Of note is a massive inammatory invasion, mainly plasmocyFc, in the tumour in its surroundings. IntesFne ends free of neoplasFc lesions. Minimum side margin is 0.1 cm. IntesFne ends free of neoplasFc lesions. Metastases carcinomatosae in lymphonodis No IIIXXXIV. InltraFo carcinomatosa capsulae lymphonodorum et telae adiposae perinodalis.Microscopic descripKon : Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare G2. InltraFo carcinomatosa tunicae muscularis propriae et serosae coli et telae adiposae mesenterii pericolicae. Of note is a massive inammatory invasion, mainly plasmocyFc, in the tumour in its surroundings. IntesFne ends free of neoplasFc lesions. Minimum side margin is 0.1 cm. IntesFne ends free of neoplasFc lesions. Metastases carcinomatosae in lymphonodis No IIIXXXIV. InltraFo carcinomatosa capsulae lymphonodorum et telae adiposae perinodalis.Microscopic descripKon : Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare G2. InltraFo carcinomatosa tunicae muscularis propriae et serosae coli et telae adiposae mesenterii pericolicae. Of note is a massive inammatory invasion, mainly plasmocyFc, in the tumour in its surroundings. IntesFne ends free of neoplasFc lesions. Minimum side margin is 0.1 cm. IntesFne ends free of neoplasFc lesions. Metastases carcinomatosae in lymphonodis No IIIXXXIV. InltraFo carcinomatosa capsulae lymphonodorum et telae adiposae perinodalis.Microscopic descripKon : Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare G2. InltraFo carcinomatosa tunicae muscularis propriae et serosae coli et telae adiposae mesenterii pericolicae. Of note is a massive inammatory invasion, mainly plasmocyFc, in the tumour in its surroundings. IntesFne ends free of neoplasFc lesions. Minimum side margin is 0.1 cm. IntesFne ends free of neoplasFc lesions. Metastases carcinomatosae in lymphonodis No IIIXXXIV. InltraFo carcinomatosa capsulae lymphonodorum et telae adiposae perinodalis.Microscopic descripKon : Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare G2. InltraFo carcinomatosa tunicae muscularis propriae et serosae coli et telae adiposae mesenterii pericolicae. Of note is a massive inammatory invasion, mainly plasmocyFc, in the tumour in its surroundings. IntesFne ends free of neoplasFc lesions. Minimum side margin is 0.1 cm. IntesFne ends free of neoplasFc lesions. Metastases carcinomatosae in lymphonodis No IIIXXXIV. InltraFo carcinomatosa capsulae lymphonodorum et telae adiposae perinodalis.Microscopic descripKon : Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare G2. InltraFo carcinomatosa tunicae muscularis propriae et serosae coli et telae adiposae mesenterii pericolicae. Of note is a massive inammatory invasion, mainly plasmocyFc, in the tumour in its surroundings. IntesFne ends free of neoplasFc lesions. Minimum side margin is 0.1 cm. IntesFne ends free of neoplasFc lesions. Metastases carcinomatosae in lymphonodis No IIIXXXIV. InltraFo carcinomatosa capsulae lymphonodorum et telae adiposae perinodalis.Microscopic descripKon : Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare G2. InltraFo carcinomatosa tunicae muscularis propriae et serosae coli et telae adiposae mesenterii pericolicae. Of note is a massive inammatory invasion, mainly plasmocyFc, in the tumour in its surroundings. IntesFne ends free of neoplasFc lesions. Minimum side margin is 0.1 cm. IntesFne ends free of neoplasFc lesions. Metastases carcinomatosae in lymphonodis No IIIXXXIV. InltraFo carcinomatosa capsulae lymphonodorum et telae adiposae perinodalis. Compliance validated by: Compliance validated by: Compliance validated by: Compliance validated by: Compliance validated by: Compliance validated by: Compliance validated by: Histopathological diagnosis: Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare coli. Tubulopapillar adenocarcinoma of the colon. Metastases carcinomatosae in lymphonodis. Cancer metastases in the lymph nodes. No IIIXXXIV. p2, Dukes C, Astler-Coller C2, pT4a, pNl. CONTACT YOUR DOCTOR WITH THIS REPORT! 
 SPECIMENS: A. RIGHT COLON, TERMINAL ILEUM DIAGNOSIS: A. RIGHT COLON, TERMINAL ILEUM, RIGHT HEMICOLECTOMY: - INVASIVE MODERATELY DIFFERENTIATED ADENOCARCINOMA OF THE COLON, WITH INVASION INTO SUBSEROSAL ADIPOSE TISSUE 4.2 X 3 X 0.7 CM. - ALL SURGICAL MARGINS OF EXCISION, NEGATIVE FOR NEOPLASM. - SEPARATE TUBULOVILLOUS ADENOMA, ADJACENT TO THE APPENDICEAL ORIFICE. - APPENDIX WITH FIBROUS OBLITERATION OF THE DISTAL PORTION. - PORTION OF TERMINAL ILEUM WITH NO SIGNIFICANT PATHOLOGIC CHANGES. - SIXTEEN MESENTERIC LYMPH NODES, NEGATIVE FOR MALIGNANCY 016. - SEE TEMPLATE. COLORECTAL CANCER TEMPLATE Specimen Type: Right hemicolectomy Tumor Site: Right ascending colon Tumor Configuration: Ulceration Tumor Size: 4.2 x 3 x 0.6 cm Histologic Type: Adenocarcinoma Histologic Grade: G2: Moderately differentiated Extent of Invasion: Subserosa Margins: Margins uninvolved by invasive carcinoma proximal. distal, radial VenousLymphatic Invasion: Abs ent Perineural Invasion: Absent Additional Pathologic Findings: Adenoma Extent of Resection: R0: Complete resection with grossly and microscopically negative margins Lymph Nodes: Negative 016 Implants: Absent Pathologic Stage: p T3a N0 Mx SPECIMENS: A. RIGHT COLON, TERMINAL ILEUM CLINICAL HISTORY: Not given GROSS DESCRIPTION: A. RIGHT COLON, TERMINAL ILEUM Received fresh for tissue procurement is a segment of terminal ileum with attached right colon. The terminal i leum is 4 cm in length and 4 cm in circumference and is grossly unremarkable. A segment of the right colon is 25 cm in length and 9.5 cm in maximum circumference. The serosal surface is tan-pink, smooth and grossly unremarkable. The attached appendix is 7 cm in length and 0.4 cm in diameter and shows unremarkable external and cut surfaces. The specimen is opened and shows a 4.2 x 3 x 0.6 cm tumor mass with central ulceration located at the mid portion of the right colon at 8 cm from the closest distal margin and 12.5 cm from the ileo-cecal valve. This lesion involves the portion of the colon which is not covered with serosa. It invades through the muscularis into the subserosa. A second polypoid lesion is identified in the area corresponding to the base of the appendix. This lesion measures 2.5 x 2.3 x 0.7 cm. Sectioning shows the lesion to be confined to the mucosa without definite evidence of invasion. The remainder of the colon shows an unremarkable tan pink mucosa. Throughout the pericolic adipose tissue, multiple presumptive lymph nodes are identified ranging between 0.3 and 0.6 cm in greatest dimension. All the lymph nodes and representative sections of the specimen are submitted as follows: A1: appendix A2: proximal margin A3: distal margin A4-7: sections of tumor A8-12: sections of cecal polypoid mass in the area of the appendiceal orifice A13: uninvolved colon proximal to the tumor A14: uninvolved colon distal to the tumor A15-16: lymph node underlying the tumor A17-18: lymph node from the ileocecal artery region Tissue procurement was performed on the specimen. Gross photographs are taken of the specimen. 
FINAL DIAGNOSIS: PARTS 1 AND 2: COLON, SIGMOID AND RECTUM, RESECTION- A. INVASIVE WELL TO MODERATELY DIFFERENTIATED ADENOCARCINOMA, MEASURING 5.5 CM IN GREATEST DIMENSION,INVADING THROUGH MUSCULARIS PROPRIA INTO PERICOLONIC ADIPOSE TISSUE EXTENDING TO WITHIN LESS THAN 1 MM TO SEROSAL SURFACE. B. NO DEFINITE PERINEURAL INVASION IS SEEN. C. PROXIMAL AND DISTAL SURGICAL RESECTION MARGINS NEGATIVE FOR TUMOR. D. MULTIPLE REGIONAL LYMPH NODES POSITIVE FOR METASTATIC ADENOCARCINOMA 314. E. PATHOLOGIC STAGE: pT3, N1, Mx. MICROSCOPIC: TCGA-AZ-4308 SYNOPTIC DATA-PRIMARY COLON AND RECTAL TUMORS SPECIMEN TYPE: Sigmoidectomy SPECIMEN LENGTH: 11.5 em TUMOR SITE: Sigmoid colon TUMOR CONFIGURATION: Infiltrative TUMOR SIZE: Greatest dimension: 5.5 em Additional dimensions: 4.5 em INTACTNESS OF MESORECTUM: Not applicable HISTOLOGIC TYPE: Adenocarcinoma HISTOLOGIC GRADE: low-grade well to moderately differentiated PATHOLOGIC STAGING pTNM: pT3cd ANGIOLYMPHATIC INVASION: PERINEURAL INVASION: TUMOR BORDER CONFIGURATION: pN1 Number of nodes examined: 14 Number of nodes involved: 3 pMX MARGINS Proximal margin uninvolved by invasive carcinoma Distal margin uninvolved by invasive carcinoma Circumferential radial margin -Not applicable Mesenteric margin uninvolved by invasive carcinoma Present Absent Infiltrating TUMORAL LYMPHOCYTIC RESPONSE: Mild to moderate None identified ADDITIONAL PATHOLOGIC FINDINGS: 
I personally informed thiS. that a specimens would be collected to be used for research purposes. I reviewed the RESEARCH SUBJECT INFORMATION AND CONSENT FORM with the patient and answered any questions the patient had. The patient then signed the consent form as a free and voluntary act. A copy of . . . at our institution. IClinical Informationl Symptoms: Clinical Findings: Performance Scale Karnofsky Score: . . . 0 o 100 Asymptomatic 0 80-90 Symptomatic but Fully Ambulatory 60-yo Symptomatic, In bed I:ss than 50 Yo of day 040-50 S m tomatic, in bed more than 50 of da , but not bed rIdden 020-30 Bed Ridden   To     To     To     To   -, -----: , -.---PAST MEDICAL HISTORY Diagnosis! Disease! Disorder !Iniu,ry Diagnosis Date TYPE TYPE Current Status TYPE o YES NO Relative Diagnosis , -i,: --: --- Treatment Status Age of Diagnosis o Negative 0 Positive:   o Negative 0 Positive:   BIT Cell Markers: 2 - Location of Sus ected Involved L m h Nodes Location of Sus ected Distant Metastasis Clinical Sta in . ..... .  .... -- Stage: JL I fTreatment Informationl Palpable, Non-Dissected Lymph Dissected Lymph , ;i,,:;ji;;:Ji1;:;tp!NEOAJJUVENEc:mERAPYtciiilit;;Rdlation:linmilllo;Hoi1li6liaW6rMoJeuhir,,, ,;  , .. ,.,:.,, DrugTreatment Dose Route Frequencv Date mmddyyyy   To     To     To     To     To   3 Pathology Form ISpecimen Information Nonnal Tirneto LN2 min min PrimaIY Tumor Organ Size Extension of Tumor Distance to NAT 4x S x em em Lymph Nodes v location  Examined  Metastasized Distant Metastasis Organ Detailed Location Size Pathological Staging pT .3 N c Me Stage: TI. Notes: 4 !Microscopic Descriptionl ;i,:i; .4;;;. .;:.;;1 . .. i;;; ?::: Risto logical Pattern;: ,   . L,:;,,g;:fj1i;- ; Cell Distribution  - Structural Pattern  - Diffuse iJ Streaming Mosaic Storiform Necrosis Fibrosis LymphocytiC Infiltration X Palisading Vascular Invasion Cystic Degeneration Clusterized Bleeding Alveolar Formation Myxoid Change Indian File PsammomaCalcification ,L ...  ;;:;E;1:::;i1;;;Jrrft:i:0t;i.;i ,;if;.ti: ;;e ml; r , .... 3, Si;.i;:iD0:;;cijilii.;Qt ;A .. ;;;J.:i; ;,.: . ;:; :;;:;ft t,,;; Squamous  -Adenomatous  -Sarcomatous  -Lymphomatous  - SQuamoid Cell Glandular cell IY Round Cell Large Cell Spindle Cell Cell Stratification Fibroblast Small Cell Keratin Secretion Osteoblast RS CellRS Like Desmosome Intracyt. Vacuole Lipoblast Inflam. Cell Pearl Gland formation tJ Myoblast Plasma Cell Cellular Differentiation: Well Moderate 1 Poor ,: ;!li;2;;,f4f5s!!.;:;!,j::t;t;4;11;tM::l:tii;4;r Nulear Apea rancsii;;t:T!;s;;;9,ij;; . .:;; .  ;:J:;,. .. ;r:!f:. Nuclear Atypia: 0 I II III Aniso Nucleosis y Hyperchromatism  Nucleolar Prominent Y Multinucleated Giant Cell 0 Mitotic Activity ;c Nuclear Grade: !Final Pathology Repo 1. Histolol!iaJ PllIIern: CELL DISTRIBUTION ... -Diffuse Mosaic  Storifonn Streaming STRUCTURAL PATTERN Necrosis Lymphocytic Infiltration Vascular Invasion fX Fibrosis Palisading Clusterized !Pr Alveolar Fonnation f Cystic De2eDeration 1. Cellular featurn:  Bleeding Indian File J. PsammomaCalcification Mvxoid Chan2e SqualRGUS ... -AdenolDatous ...  SarcolDatous  -LVIDDholDatous SQuamoid Cell Glandular cell V Round Cell GlieCe11 Spindle Cell Cell Stratification ! IX FibrobllS Keratin Secretion rI Osteoblast Small Cell RS CelllRS Like ... - Desmosome Intracyt Vacuole i liPOblast Inflam. Cell Pearl Gland fonnation ..I Myoblast Plasma Cell Otherwise Specified: 7 CI 1. Cellular DijJerentiation: I Well Moderately Poor J. Nuclellr AtvDia: 0 I II III Nuclear Appearanft V Aniso Nudeosis H matism Nucleolar Prominent t Multinucleated Giant Cell t Mitotic ActivitY  Nueiear Grade 
Path First Tumor Tumor Site: Hepatic Flexure Proximal Date of Cancer Sample Procurement: Histology : Adenocarcinoma Description of other histology: Grade : Well Differentiated Mucinous : C No r Yes r YesFocalr Unknown Signet Ring Feature : : No r Yes r YesFocalr Unknown Histologic Heterogeneity : T No r Yes r Unknown Host Response: Crohn s like reaction C None r Yes C Unknown Plasma cell rich stroma r No r Yes r Unknown Growth Pattern : f: Expansile r Invasive rExpansile - Unknownand Invasive Inflammatory Bowel Disease r No Yes r Unknown Angiolymphatic Invasion : r No r Yes rUnknown Mutator Phenotype : No Yes r Unknown Number of Slides Garland Necrosis present : C: No Yes r Yes Focalr Unknown TIL Cells  HPF 0 Pathologist Comment:I Pd CQCF UUID:499EEF9A-F77A-4FOD-A575-CB52AAB54E9BTCGA-DM-A28K-01A-PR Redacted III IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 1IIIIIIIIIIIIII111111I1111111IIIIIIII if 111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111CE-a-3 I e8 o3QIino i irn ccco,o. a Vas S, r. ,  ,,a  - yctt e3 -neny!a   Diagrosis DIscsepanry Pnmary Tumor Srtc Di repancy I IIPAA Disaepanry ri.nrW1 narny I iistory GnSSic ,rn us ul iYlaiy t! n C oistittle nevi ,wcr Initialsre Reviewed:
 Date Coll: SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT SPECIMEN Extended right hemicolectomy CLINICAL NOTES PRE- OP DIAGNOSIS: Hepatic flexure carcinoma GROSS DESCRIPTION Received fresh labeled extended right hemicolectomy is a previously unopened 26 cm. segment of proximal right colon with attached 8 cm. of distal ileum surfaced by smooth to slightly scabrous tan pink serosa with a moderate amount of mesocolon, mesentery, and unremarkable omentum. An unremarkable 3.5 cm. appendix averaging 0.8 cm. in diameter is present. A focus of serosal retraction including a portion of omentum is noted at the distal end of the specimen. The overlying surface is inked blue. On opening, there is a circumferential, 4.8 x 3.2 cm. tan white tumor located 8 cm. from the distal margin. The tumor has a maximal thickness of 1.5 cm., grossly extending through the muscularis to within 0.1 cm. of the inked free radial serosal surface. The tumor appears to extend into the retracted and adherent omentum see blocks 2 and 3. A portion of tumor and a portion of normal mucosa are submitted for tissue procurement as requested. The proximal and distal margins of the specimen measure 3.7 and 6.6 cm. in circumference respectively. The ileal and remaining colonic mucosa is glistening tan pink with regular folds and the walls average 0.5 cm. in thickness. No additional mass lesion or abnormality is identified. A few soft to slightly rubbery pale tan white to tan pink tissues in keeping with lymph nodes measuring up to 1.0 cm. in greatest dimension are recovered from the attached mesocolon and mesentery. Representative sections are submitted in 12 blocks as labeled. BLOCK SUMMARY: 1 - Proximal and distal margins; 2 and 3 - tumor extending into associated omentum; 4 - tumor to closest inked free radial serosal surface; 5 - tumor to normal mucosa; 6 - ICB; 7 and 8 - random from remainder of colon; 9 - appendix; 10 and 11 - eig whole lymph nodes per cassette; 12 - seven whole lymph nodes. MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION Histologic type: Adenocarcinoma. Histologic grade: High- grade poorly differentiated Primary tumor pT: The tumor extends through the full thickness of the wall and through the pericolonic adipose tissue to the serosal surface, pT4a. Proximal margin: Negative for tumor. Distal margin: Negative for tumor. Circumferential radial margin: Tumor extends to within less than 1 mm of the radial margin. Distance of tumor from closest margin: 8 cm from the distal margin Vascular invasion: Areas highly suspicious for vascular invasion identified. Regional lymph nodes pN: pN0 025 Non- lymph node pericolonic tumor: Perineural invasion is identified. Distant metastasis pM: pMx Other findings: Ileocecal valve lipoma. Appendix with fibrous obliteration of the tip. DIAGNOSIS Colon, right, hemicolectomy - Invasive poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma see tumor characteristics in the microscopic description. mber of lymph nodes to microscopic template. - -- End Of Report --- 
Diagnosis  Diagnoses:  Resectate of the colon sigmoid colon with diverticulosis, with tumor- free oral and aboral resection margins and under inclusion of an ulcerated, moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma with infiltration of the perimuscular fatty tissue. Thirty -seven regional lymph nodes tumor-free, with uncharacteristic reactive changes G2, pT3 pN0 037 L0 V0 R0.
 SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT .... Clinical Diagnosis  History: with sigmoid adenocarcinoma. Specimens Submitted: 1: Sigmoid colon and upper rectum; resection 2: Distal ring 3: Proximal ring DIAGNOSIS: 1. Sigmoid colon and upper rectum; resection: Tumor Type: Adenocarcinoma Histologic Grade: Moderately differentiated Tumor Location: Sigmoid colon Tumor Size: Length is 2 cm Width is 1.5 cm Maximal thickness is 0.6 cm Tumor Budding: Absent Increased Tumor Infiltrating Lymphocytes: Absent Precursor Lesions: Tubular adenoma Deepest Tumor Invasion: Subserosal adipose tissue andor mesenteric fat Gross Tumor Perforation: Not identified Lymphovascular Invasion: Not identified Large Venous Invasion: Not Identified Perineural Invasion: Not identified Surgical Margins: Free of tumor PolypsMucosa Dysplasia away from the carcinoma: Not Identified  Continued on next page  ------------------------------------------------------------ Page 2 of 3 Non-Neoplastic Bowel: Unremarkable Lymph Nodes: Number with metastasis: 1 Total number examined: 17 Tumor deposits in pericolorectal soft tissue: Not Identified Tumor Staging AJCC 7th Edition: pT3 Tumor invades through the muscularis propria into pericolorectal tissues Lymph Node Stage AJCC 7th Edition: N1a Metastasis in one regional lymph node -------------------------------------------------------- 2. Rectum, distal ring; excision: - Benign segment of rectum with no pathologic diagnosis. 3. Colon, proximal ring; excision: - Benign segment of colon with no pathologic diagnosis. I ATTEST THAT THE ABOVE DIAGNOSIS IS BASED UPON MY PERSONAL EXAMINATION OF THE SLIDES ANDOR OTHER MATERIAL, AND THAT I HAVE REVIEWED AND APPROVED THIS REPORT. Gross Description: 1. The specimen is received fresh, labeled sigmoid and upper rectum, open end is proximal. It consists of a rectosigmoid colon that measures 19 cm in length and 5 cm in diameter. The serosal surface is pink and glistening. The radial resection margin is inked black and the specimen is opened to reveal a tumor that is located 12 cm from the proximal margin and 5.5 cm from the distal margin. The tumor measures 2 cm in length and 1.5 cm in width. Serial sectioning reveals tumor invasion to a depth of 0.6 cm, which is 2.5 cm from the closest radial margin. The remaining mucosa is grossly unremarkable. Pericolic and peri-rectal adipose tissue is thoroughly examined for lymph nodes, and all possible nodes are submitted. Representative sections are submitted. TPS is submitted. The specimen is submitted for lymph node dissection. Summary of sections: PM - proximal margin DM - distal margin RM - radial margin T - tumor U - uninvolved mucosa LN - lymph nodes BLN - bisected lymph node  Continued on next page  ------------------------------------------------------------ Page 3 of 3 2. The specimen is received in formalin, labeled Distal ring and consists of a ring of bowel measuring 1.0 cm in length and 1.5 cm in diameter. It has a stapled line through the middle. The mucosal surface is pink tan and focally hemorrhagic and the serosal surface is pink tan and smooth. The staples are removed and the soft tissue is entirely submitted. Summary of sections: U - undesignated 3. The specimen is received in formalin, labeled Proximal ring and consists of a silver metal anastomotic pin measuring 5.5 x 2.8 x 1.5 cm. At the center of the pin, a blue plastic piece is noted. A ring of pink tan soft tissue is attached measuring 1.5 x 1.4 x 1.0 cm. The mucosal surface is pink tan and focally hemorrhagic and the serosal surface is pink tan and smooth. Several sutures are noted. The sutures are removed and the soft tissue is entirely submitted. Summary of sections: U - undesignated Summary of Sections: Part 1: Sigmoid colon and upper rectum; resection Block Sect. Site PCs 1 dm 1 6 LN 14 1 pm 1 1 rm 1 3 t 3 1 u 1 Part 2: Distal ring Block Sect. Site PCs 1 U 1 Part 3: Proximal ring Block Sect. Site PCs 1 U 1  End of Report  
 SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT Clinical Diagnosis  History: year old male 5 cm mass seen in descending colon on colonoscopy 45 cm from anal verge. Specimens Submitted: 1: Sigmoid colon; resection 2: Distal ring 3: Proximal ring DIAGNOSIS: 1. Sigmoid colon; resection: Tumor Type: Adenocarcinoma Histologic Grade: Moderately differentiated Tumor Location: Sigmoid colon Tumor Size: Length is 2.5 cm Width is 2.0 cm Maximal thickness is 1.5 cm Tumor Budding: Focal Increased Tumor Infiltrating Lymphocytes: Absent Precursor Lesions: Tubular adenoma Deepest Tumor Invasion: Muscularis propria Gross Tumor Perforation: Not identified Lymphovascular Invasion: Not identified Large Venous Invasion: Identified Perineural Invasion: Not identified Surgical Margins: Free of tumor PolypsMucosa Dysplasia away from the carcinoma:  Continued on next page  ------------------------------------------------------------ Page 2 of 4 Not Identified Non-Neoplastic Bowel: Unremarkable Lymph Nodes: Total number examined: 17 One lymph node contains metastatic carcinoma, consistent with prostatic origin, see comment. Tumor Staging AJCC 7th Edition: pT2 Tumor invades muscularis propria Lymph Node Stage AJCC 7th Edition: N0 No regional lymph node metastasis Comment: Immunohistochemical stains show that the tumor cells in the lymph node are positive for PSA, while negative for CK7, CK20, CDX-2, TTF-1, chromogranin, and synaptophysin, consistent with a prostate origin. -------------------------------------------------------- 2. Colon, distal ring; excision: -Benign colonic tissue with hyperplastic changes. 3. Colon, proximal ring; excision: -Benign colonic tissue. I ATTEST THAT THE ABOVE DIAGNOSIS IS BASED UPON MY PERSONAL EXAMINATION OF THE SLIDES ANDOR OTHER MATERIAL, AND THAT I HAVE REVIEWED AND APPROVED THIS REPORT. Special Studies: Result Special Stain Comment RECUT Gross Description: 1 The specimen is received fresh and is labeled sigmoid colon. It consists of an unoriented segment of sigmoid colon that measures 26 x 6 cm. The serosal surface is unremarkable. The radial resection margin is inked black and the specimen is opened to reveal a polypoid tumor that is located 2.4 cm from one margin and 21 cm from the opposite margin. The tumor measures 2.5 cm in length and 2 cm in width. Serial sectioning reveals that the tumor maximum thickness is 1.5 cm. The remaining mucosa is unremarkable. Pericolic adipose tissue spans the entire length of the specimen with a maximum thickness of 12 cm. It is submitted for lymph node dissection and thoroughly examined for lymph nodes, and all possible nodes are submitted. Representative sections are submitted. TPS is submitted.  Continued on next page  ------------------------------------------------------------ Page 3 of 4 Summary of sections: M1 - margin closer to the tumor M2 - margin farther from the tumor T - tumor U - uninvolved mucosa LN - lymph nodes BLN - bisected lymph node . 2 The specimen is received in formalin, labeled distal ring and consists of a ring of pink tan soft tissue measuring 2.5 x 1.8 x 1.3 cm. Multiple sutures and staples are attached. The mucosal surface is pink tan and focally hemorrhagic. The sutures and staples are removed, and the soft tissue is entirely submitted. Summary of sections: U - undesignated 3 The specimen is received in formalin, labeled proximal ring and consists of a ring of pink tan soft tissue measuring 2.0 x 1.8 x 1.4 cm. Multiple sutures and staples are attached. The mucosal surface is pink tan and focally hemorrhagic. The sutures and staples are removed, and the soft tissue is entirely submitted. Summary of sections: U - undesignated Summary of Sections: Part 1: Sigmoid colon; resection Block Sect. Site PCs 6 LN 16 1 M1 1 1 M2 2 4 T 4 1 U 1 Part 2: Distal ring Block Sect. Site PCs 2 U 0  Continued on next page  ------------------------------------------------------------ Page 4 of 4 Part 3: Proximal ring Block Sect. Site PCs 2 U 0  End of Report  
Diagnosis: Ileocolic resection material includes a centrally ulcerated, moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma of the colorectal type in the region of the right flexure, with a maximum diameter of 4.5 cm with incipient infiltration of the pericolic fatty tissue max. infiltration depth in fatty tissue less than 1 mm in the histological section. Tumor -free regional lymph nodes. Tumor -free resection margins of small intestine and colon. Three tubular colon mucosa adenomas with mild to moderate dysplasia s ynonym: low -grade intraepithelial neoplasia. Tumor stage: pT3 pN0 024 pMX; G2, L0, V0, R0 
Diagnosis: In I, there is a benign lesion in the sense of a hyperplastic polyp, in II is an adenocarcinoma of the colon  Block A  of poor differentiation with infiltration of the muscularis and vessels G3, pT2, L1, V1 . Tumor classification: ICDO -DA M 81403 G3 pT2, L1, V1, pN0 0 of 1 2, locally R0
Diagnosis This concerns a resected sigma sample with a moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma with histopathological differentiation grade G2, with ulceration of the inner surface of the tumor, with necrosis, with peritumoral, chronic recurrent secondary inflammation with an acute inflammation flare, with carcinomatous lymphangitis, with tumor infiltration of the sigma wall layers to the subserous fatty connective tissue, with moderate chronic lymphadenitis of the tumor-free lymph nodes 013, with tumor- free overview slices from the resection margins and from the anastomosis ring, as well as with a sigma diverticulosis. According to the preparation sections at hand, the spreading of the tumor of the sigma carcinoma corresponds to a tumor stage of pT3, pN0, MX, L1, R0. 
 COPY TO: Pre-Op Diagnosis Dysplastic colon polyp, colon mass Post-Op Diagnosis Same Clinical History Nothing indicated on requisition Gross Description: Container labeled MEE extended right colon is a 28.5 cm previously opened portion of large bowel including cecum and 3.0 cm of attached previously partially opened terminal ileum. The specimen is covered by a moderate amount of pericolic and epiploic adipose tissue in which a 4.9 x 0.7 x 0.7 cm grossly unremarkable vermiform appendix is identified. The visible serosa is smooth and gray tan. Noted at a point approximately 4.6 cm from the distal margin there is an area of deep gray discoloration consistent with tattooing. The bowel wall is up to 0.6 cm, edematous, and fibrotic. The lumen is lined by gray tan mucosa with preservation of intestinal folds. Noted in the area with the tattooing ata point 4.8 cm from the distal margin there is a previously partially sectioned 2.6 x 2.0 cm slightly raised finely granular centraily ulcerated gray brown plaque-like lesion. On sectioning this has a tan gritty fibrotic cut surface and grossly extends through the muscle but appears limited by the serosa. No other gross lesions are identified. Sectioning the surrounding adipose tissue reveals a few poorly defined tan gray to pink nodules up to 0.6 cm. Also received iner are three tissue cassettes each labeled Representative sections are submitted labeled as fo .A- margin, B - distal margin, C through F - entire remaining lesion on surrounding tissue, G - random uninvolved bowel, H - appendix,  through K - nodules from pericolic fat. Microscopic Description: The slides labeled li re examined. See diagnosis. Final Diagnosis Terminal ileum, appendix, and right colon: Terminal ileum: No carcinoma is identified. PAS 1 Appendix: Fibrous obliteration of the luminal tip, no carcinoma identified. PAS 4 Colon: Tumor characteristics: Histologic type: Adenocarcinoma. Location of tumor; 4.8 cm from the distal surgical margin. Size: 2.6 x 2.0 cm in greatest dimension. Grade: Moderately differentiated. Lymphovascular space invasion: No unequivocal lymphovascular space invasion identified. Perforation of Visceral peritoneum: No. Presence of mesenteric deposits: No. Depth of invasion: Carcinoma extends through muscularis propria focally into subserosal adipose tissue. Surgical Margin Status: Proximal Margin: No carcinoma identified. Distal Margin: No carcinoma identified. Radial Margin: No carcinoma identified. Distance of tumor from closest mucosal surgical margin: 4.8 cm. Lymph Node Status: Total number of lymph nodes examined: 12 Total number of lymph nodes with metastatic carcinoma: 0 012 PAS 9 Other: Macrophages containing brownish black cytoplasmic pigment consistent with prior tattoo. PAS 2 SPC-NP Stage: pT3NO0 CPT: 88309 Comments At the request of the undersigned pathologist, these slides have been additionally reviewed by Dr. MQ Who concurs with the diagnosis. 
Final Surgical Pathology Report Procedure: Diagnosis Colon, ileocolectomy: Moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma of the transverse colon invasive through muscular wall into attached greater omentum pT3 Metastatic adenocarcinoma in 1 of 60 lymph nodes pNl Extranodal tumor present Serosal adhesions Appendix with serosal adhesions Resection margins negative Microscopic Description: Microscopic examination performed. Histologic type: Adenocarcinoma, not otherwise specified Histologic grade: Moderately differentiatedU1JID:3E30630A -1BAB-480C-9C75-13E828907266TCGA-A6-A5ZU-01A-PR 111111111111Redacted III II III III I II I VIII I IIIIIIIIIVIII IIIIIII IIIIIIII 11III IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIlJlllIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII I IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII II IIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIII II III Primary tumor pT: Invasive through muscularis propria of transverse colon into attached greater omentum pT3 Proximal margin: Negative Distal margins: Negative Circumferential radial margin: Negative Distance of tumor from closes margin: 8 cm from distal margin Vascular invasion: Not identified Regional lymph nodes pN: One 60 lymph nodes is positive for metastatic tumor pNl Non-lymph node pericolonic tumor: Present Distant metastasis pM: Not applicable pMX Other findings: Serosal adhesions. Clinical obstruction. Appendix with serosal adhesions. No specific additional pathologic abnormalities identified the colon or the ileum. MSI testing: Ordered on block A2 Pathologic stage T3N1 IIIB Specimen Right hemicolectomy Clinical Information Transverse colon cancer with clinical obstructionGross Description Received fresh labeled right hemicolectomy is a previously unopened 40 cm segment of proximal right colon with attached 15 cm of distal ileum and an abundant amount of attached mesocolon, mesentery, and omentum. An unremarkable 9 cm appendix averaging 0.5 cm in diameter is present. The proximal and distal margins measure 5.2 and 7.8 cm in circumference respectively. On opening, there is a circumferential, 6.0 x 3.9 cm rubbery tan-white-red tumor mass which is 8 cm from the distal margin. On sectioning, the tumor has a maximal thickness of 2 cm, grossly extending through the muscularis and into the attached mesocolon. The tumor is present within 0.2 cm of the inked free radial serosal surface and visually appears to extend into the attached omentum. A 3 cm in greatest dimension area of tan red discoloration is noted within the distal ileum, 5 cm proximal to the ileocecal valve. The remaining ileal and colonic mucosa is unremarkable tan-pink with regular folds and the walls average 0.5 cm. A portion of tumor and a portion of normal colonic mucosa are submitted for tissue procurement as requested. Multiple soft to slightly rubbery tan-pink tissues in keeping with lymph nodes measuring up to 1.3 cm are recovered from the attached mesocolon and mesentery. RS 21 Summary: 1 - margins, 2 through 4 - tumor to inked free radial serosal surface cassettes 3 and 4 including attached omentum, 5 and 6 - central tumor, 7 - discolored area of ileum, 8 - ICV, 9 and 10 the random from remainder of colon, 11 - appendix, 12 through 18 - 8 lymph nodes per cassette, 19 - 6 lymph nodes, 20 and 21 - 1 bisected lymph node per cassette Dlagnasis Uhscrepanry Primary 1 umor Site Discrepancy HIPAA Discrepant Prior Maiignancy History DualSynchrn : ;4-Gse is circleF1El Reviewer Initiae
RUN DATE: RUN TIME: RUN USER; PATIENT: REG DR: SPEC:ACCT : AGESX: DOB: STATUS:LOC: ROOM: BED :PAGE 1 RECD: JR STATUS: COLL:TIME IN FORMALIN;  CLINICAL INFORMATION: Pro-Op Diagnosis: Sigmoid colon neoplasm Remarks: Specimens: A.Liver biopsy left lobe B.Splenic flexure colon lesion C.Left lobe liver biopsy D.Pelvic peritoneal nodule LEFT LOBE LIVER BIOPSY: GRANULOMATOUS INFLAMMATIONUUID:7989D161-8397-455C-AC36 -7DED2D211C95TCGA-NH-A50T-01A-PRRedacted III II II I III I II I IIIII II II IIIII I IIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIII 11111111 111111 IIIIII IIIIIII II IIIII1IIIIIIIIIJUIIIIIIIII iillllllllllllll l lll11IllIII JUII I I I IIIIIIIIUIUII 111111111111 111111111111 IIIIIIIIIII III eta-0- ,cf eclea sp eifr .IXr C.If;S NEGATIVE FOR ORGANISMS ON ACID FAST AND FUNGAL STAINS COLON AT SPLENIC FLEXURE LAPAROSCOPIC SEGMENTAL RESECTION: MODERATELY DIFFERENTIATED ADENOCARCINOMA, INVADING THROUGH THE BOWEL WALL NO METASTASIS IN 10 REGIONAL LYMPH NODES ALL MARGINS UNINVOLVED -SEE COMMENT FOR SYNOPTIC REPORT LEVI LOBE LIVER BIOPSY: -GRANULOMATOUS INFLAMMATION NEGATIVE FOR ORGANISMS ON ACID FAST AND FUNGAL STAINS PELVIC PERITONEAL NODULE BIOPSY: FAT NECROSIS WITH FIBROSIS AND CALCIFICATION COMMENTS SURGICAL PATHOLOGY CANCER CASE SUMMARY - CAP APPROVED Specimen: Procedure: Tumor Site: Tumor Size: Macroscopic Tumor Perforation: Histologic Type: Histologic Grade: Microscopic Tumor Extension:Transverse colon, descending colon Laparoscopic resection Specimen Length: 12 cm Splenic flexure 6 cm in greatest dimension Not identified Adenocarcinoma Low-grade Tumor invades through the muscularis propria into the  CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE RUN DATE: RUN TIME: RUN USER: SPEC :PATIENT:PAGE 2 Continued COMMENT SContinued subserosal adipose tissue Margins:Distance of invasive carcinoma from closest margin; 2 cm; mucosal margin opposite tattooed margin Proximal: Uninvolved by invasive carcinoma Distal: Uninvolved by invasive carcinoma Circumferential: Uninvolved by invasive carcinoma Treatment Effect:Noprior treatment Lymph-Vascular Invasion; Notidentified Perineural Invasion: Notidentified Tumor Deposits:Present Pathologic Staging:Primary Tumor: pT3 Regional Lymph Nodes: pN0 Number examined: 10 Number involved; 0 Distant Metastasis: Not applicable GROSS DESCRIPTION: A.Received fresh for frozen section labeled with the patients name and liver biopsy is a 1 x 0.4 x 0.3 cm linear biopsy of tan tissue totally submitted in block A for frozen section evaluation, B.Received fresh labeled with the patients nameand splenic flexure colon lesion with tissue bank coordinator in attendance is a 12 cm segmental resection of large bowel which measures 4cm in diameter.requests gross evaluation for margins. Both the surgical margins are stapled and not clinically designated.Tattoo pigment is noted which abuts one staple line. The adipose tissue is wrapped around the serosa in the mid portion. Blue ink is applied to this area. The tattoo stapled margin measures 5cm in length and opposite margin measures 3.5 cm in length. The mesenteric margin measures 3 cm. Blue ink is applied to this margin. In trying to separate the mesentery from the bowel, it is found to be adherent to the bowel surface. There is some fatty tissue present on the opposite side which may be inclusive of some omental type tissue. The margins are removed and the Lumen probed revealing an obstructing masspresent. The tumor measures 6 cm in length, it involves the entire circumference of the bowel wall. It lies 2.5 cm from the tattooed margin and 2 cm from the opposite margin. A portion of the edge of the tumor and non-neoplastic mucosa is provided to the tissue bank coordinator. The specimen is pinned out onto a corkboard for several hours of formalin fixation. The partial fixed specimen is serially sectioned revealing that the tumor extends deep into the muscle wall, possibly extending through the muscle wall.A subjacent lymph node is identified measuring 1 cm. The pericolicmesenteric adipose tissue was placed in a 5050 solution of lymph node revealing solution and formalin.On cross section, several lymph nodes are identified which range from 0.4 to 1 cm in greatest dimension each. No omental nodules are identified. Cassette Summary: B1.2 - tattoo pigment B3-8 -representative sections of tumor with blocks 3 and 4 demonstrating adjacent  CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE PAGE 3 SPEC M : PATIENT:Continued GROSS DESCRIPTION: Continued lymph node B9-omental tissue B11-13- two lymph nodes each bisected and totally submitted, one inked B14-largest lymph node sectioned and totally submitted C.In formalin labeled with the patients name and left lobe liver biopsy is a 0.7 x 1 x 0.3 cm biopsy of liver tissue. There is a 0.5 x 0.4 cm pale area on the surface, The biopsy is trisected and entirely submitted in block C. D.In formalin labeled with the patients name and pelvic peritoneal nodule is a I x 1 x 0.5 cm triangular shaped portion of gray fatty tissue. There is a 3 mm whitish nodule on the surface.The specimen is bisected revealing this to be a partially calcified hemorrhagic nodule possibly representing fat necrosis.The specimen is entirely submittedin block D. MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION: AC.These biopsies of the left lobe of the liver show focal granulomatous inflammation with fibrosis.The granulomas are mostly noncaseating, composed of epithelioid histiocytes, multinucleated giant cells and a sprinkling of small lymphocytes.These granulomas are set in a fibrous stroma. A few of the granulomas have scant central necrosis but most are noncaseating.AFB and GMS stains are obtained on both biopsies. Noorganisms are seen. D.This is a piece of adipose tissue containing a sclerotic, partially calcified nodule compatible with fat necrosis,There is no evidence of metastatic carcinoma, B.Sections of the obstructing tumor demonstrate a moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma which invades through the bowel wall, not quite reaching the subjacent mesenteric lymph node. Discontinuous invasion is noted.No metastasis are identified in10 regional lymph nodes, INTRAOPERATIVE CONSULTATION: FROZEN SECTION DIAGNOSIS: LIVER BIOPSY: NECROTIZING GRANULOMATOUS INFLAMMATION -NEGATIVE FOR CARCINOMA RESULTS GIVEN TOIN OPERATING ROOM AT SPLENIC FLEXURE MASS: GROSS OBSTRUCTING CARCINOMA WITH MARGINS AS FOLLOWS: TATTOO STAPLE LINE 2.5 CM AND OPPOSITE STAPLE LINE 2 CM FINDINGS GIVEN TOIN THE OPERATING ROOM AT  CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE RUN DATE: RUN TIME: RUN USER: SPECIt: ImagePATIENT:mm Picture Copy Error Signedsignature on file  END OF REPORT PAGE 4 Continued I Criteria Diagnosis Disrr .,parcy  Prirnary Turrar Site Diurcpanry f IP Di iaepancy Prior D. lafgnar cy IlMory DuAjSyn hrntwusfrmaryt Case Is tci cl,
CGA -A6-2684 SPECIMEN A. Apical node B. Right hemicolectomy CLINICAL NOTES PRE-OP DIAGNOSIS: Adenocarcinoma of cecum. GROSS DESCRIPTION X A A. Received fresh labeled apical node is an ovoid, 1.0 0.6 x 0.5 em. soft tan pink tissue which is bisected and entirely submitted in one block. AS-1. B. Received fresh labeled right hemicolectomy is a previously unopened 28 em. segment of proximal right colon with attached 17 em. of distal ileum surfaced by smooth to scabrous tan-pink serosa with a moderate amount of attached mesocolon and mesentery. An unremarkable 3.7 em. appendix averaging 0.5 em. in diameter is present. The proximal and distal margins measure 3.9 and 6.1 em. in circumference respectively. On opening, there is a 5.3 x 2.0 em. rubbery tan-pink-red lesion at the ileocecal valve. portion of the lesion and a portion of normal are submitted for tissue procurement as requested. On sectioning, the lesion has a maximal thickness of 1.3 em., grossly extending into the muscularis to within 0.5 ern. of the closest ink-free radial serosal surface. The remaining ileal and colonic mucosa is unremarkable1 glistening tan-pink with regular folds and the walls average 0.5 em. in thickness. Multiple slightly rubbery pale tan tissues in keeping with lymph nodes measuring up to 1.0 em. in greatest dimension are recovered from the attached mesocolon and mesentery. Representative sections are submitted in 12 blocks as labeled. RS-12. BLOCK SUMMARY: 1 -proximal and distal margins; 2, 3 -tumor full thickness to ink-free radial serosal surface; 4, 5 -tumor to GROSS DESCRIPTION adjacent mucosa; 6 -random ileal and colonic mucosa; 7 -appendix; 8-10 -eight whole lymph nodes per cassette; 11 -seven whole lymph nodes; bisected largest lymph node. MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION A. The apical lymph node demonstrates one lymph node with no evidence of metastatic disease. B. The following template applies to the right hemicolectomy: Histologic type: Adenocarcinoma. Histologic grade: Moderately differentiated. Primary tumor pT: 5.3 em., extending into, but not through, the muscularis propria pT2. Proximal margin: Negative. Distal margin: Negative. Circumferential radial margin: Negative. Vascular invasion: Not identified. Regional lymph nodes pN: No evidence of metastasis in thirty-two additional lymph nodes pNO. Non-lymph node pericolonic tumor: Not identified. Distant metastasis pM : Cannot be evaluated by this specimen pMX. Other findings: The appendix is unremarkable. 3, 5 DIAGNOSIS A. Apical lymph node, resection: No evidence of metastasis in one lymph node 01. B. Right colon, hemicolectomy: DIAGNOSIS disease Adenocarcinoma, moderately differentiated 1 5.3 em., with extension into1 but not through, muscularis propria. Surgical margins uninvolved. Thirty-two lymph nodes with no evidence of metastatic 032. Appendix v1ith no pathologic abnormality. 
IDFormatted Path Report LARGE INTESTINE TISSUE CHECKLIST Specimen type: Excision of tumor Specimen size: Not specifiedTumor site: Sigmoid colonTumor size: 3.5 x 3 x 3 cmTumor features: None specifiedHistologic type: AdenocarcinomaHistologic grade: Moderately differentiatedTumor extent: SubmucosaLymph nodes: 03 positive for metastasis Regional 03Margins: Not specifiedEvidence of neo-adjuvant treatment: Not specifiedAdditional pathologic findings: Not specifiedComments: None Date of Procurement
resection and IRAP placement. Specimens Submitted: 1: SP: Sigmoid colon, resection 2: SP: Gallbladder, excision sigmoid carcinoma here for sigmoid 3: SP: Lymph node of callot, excision 4: SP: Hepatic artery lymph node, excision 5: SP: Left fallopian tube and ovary, excision 6: SP: Right fallopian tube and ovary, excision 7: SP: Proximal ring, excision s: SP: Distal ring, excision DIAGNOSIS: 1. SP: Sigmoid colon, resection; Tumor Type: ---J Adenocarcinoma Histologic Grade: Moderately differentiated TUmor Location: Sigmoid colon Tumor Size: Length is 5 cm Width is 4.5 cm Maximal thickness is 2.0 crn TUmor Budding: Extensive Increased TUmor Infiltrating Lymphocytes: Absent Precursor Lesions: TUbular adenoma Deepest TUmor Invasion: Serosal surface Gross TUmor Perforation: c: Not identified Lymphovascular Invasion: Suspected Large Venous Invasion: Identified  Continued on next page  :::::i---------------------------------------- urgical Margins:  Free of tumor YPSMucosa Dysplasia away from the carcinoma:  Not Identified Non-Neoplastic Bowel: Unremarkable Lymph Nodes: Number with metastasis: 1 Total number examined: 17 Tumor deposits in pericolorectal soft tissue: Identified Tumor Staging AJCC 7th Edition: Fage 2 of 6 pT4a Tumor penetrates to the surface of thevisceral peritoneum Lymph Node Stage AJCC 7th Edition: Nl Metastasis in 1-3 regional lymph nodes 2. SP: Gallbladder, cholecystectomy: -Gall bladder with chronic inflammation and cholelithiasis. 3. SP: Lymph node of callot, excision: -One benign lymph node 01. 4. SP: Hepatic artery lymph node, excision: -One benign lymph node 01. S. SP: Left fallopian tube and ovary, excision: -Benign fallopian tube and ovary. 6. SP: Right fallopian tube and ovary, excision: -Benign ovary and fallopian tube with paratubal cyst. 7. SP: Colon, proximal ring, excision: -Benign colonic tissue. 8. SP: Colon, distal ring, excision: -Benign colonic tissue. I ATTEST THAT THE ABOVE DIAGNOSIS IS BASED UPON MY PERSONAL EXAMXNATION OF THE SLIDES ANDOR OTHER MATERIAL, AND THAT I HAVE REVIEWED AND APPROVED THIS REPORT. Gross Description: 1 .The specimen is received consists of a Sigmoid colon that measures 9 em in length and 2.5 cm in  Continued on next page  ------------------------------------------------------------ Page 3 of 6 average diameter. The serosal surface is tan-pink smooth and glistening with two focal puckered regions both 0.3 CM in greatest dimension. The radial resection margin is inked blue and the specimen is opened to reveal a tumor that is located 10 cm from the proximal margin and five cm from the distal margin. The tumor measures five cm in length and 4.5 cm in width. Serial sectioning reveals an ulcerating tumor invading through the bowel wall into the peri colonic fat and extending to the puckered serosa, to a depth of 2 cm, which is 4 cm from the closest radial margin. The remaining mucosa shows normal folds and no gross abnormality. Pericolic and peri-colonic adipose tissue is submitted for lymph node dissection, and all possible nodes are submitted. Representative sections are submitted. TPS is submitted. Summary of sections: PM proximal margin DM -distal margin RM -radial margin T -tumor PLN-grossly positive lymph nodes 8tibjacent to tumor U -uninvolved mucosa LN -lymph nodes BLN-bisected lymph nodes 2. The specimen is received fresh, labeled Gallbladder and consists of a green and purple gallbladder measuring 8.2 x 4.2 x 2.Scm. The surface of the gallbladder is green purple and smooth. It is opened to reveal two black green angulated granular calculi measuring 1.4 em and 1.5 em in greatest dimension, with green black viscid bile. It also reveals a green yellow velvety mucosa with a wall measuring up to 0.2 cm. Representative sections including the cystic duct margin are submitted. Summary of sections: M -cystic duct margin G undesignated 3. The specimen is received in formalin, labeled Lymph node of callot and consists of a single lymph node measuring 2.3 x 1.4 x 0.8 cm. The lymph node is bisected and entirely submitted. Summary of sections: LN -lymph node 4. The specimen is received in formalin, labeled Hepatic artery lymph node and consists of a single lymph node measuring 3.8 x 1.8 x 1.0 em. The lymph node is sectioned and entirely submitted.  Continued on next page  --------------------------------------------------------- Page 4 of 6 Summary of sections: LN -lymph node 5.The specimen is received in formalin, labeled Left fallopian tube and ovary and consists of a fallopian tube with attached ovary. The fallopian tube measures 2.5 cm in length and averages 0.8 em in diameter. The external surface of the tube is pink tan and smooth with a normal fimbriated end. Cut section through the tube reveals a pinpoint lumen. The attached ovary measures 2.5 x 1.7 x 1.0 em. The external surface is white-tan and cerebriform. Cut section through the ovary reveals a white-tan appearance. Representative sections are Submitted. Summary of sections: F fallopian tube o -ovary 6.The specimen is received in formalin, labeled Right fallopian tube and ovary and consists of a fallopian tube with attached ovary. The fallopian tube measures 2.5 cm in length and averages 0.6 cm in diameter. The external surface of the tube is pink tan and smooth with a normal fimbriated end. There are several paratubal cysts identified which measure up to O. x 0.3 cm in greatest dimensions. Cut section through the tube reveals a pinpoint lumen. The attached ovary measures 2.5 x 2 x 1.0 cm. The external surface is White-tan and smooth. Cut section through the ovary reveals a white-tan appearance. Representative sections are submitted. Summary of sections: F fallopian tube o -ovary 7. The specimen is received in formalin wrapped around an anastomotic pin, labeled Proximal ring and consists of a ring of pink tan soft tissue measuring 1.8 x l.a x 1.0 cm. Multiple sutures and staples are attached. The mucosal surface is pink tan and focally hemorrhagic. The sutures and staples are removed and the soft tissue is entirely submitted. Summary of sections: u -undesignated a. The specimen is received in formalin, labeled Distal ringH and consists of a ring of pink tan soft tissue measuring 2.5 x 2.5 x 1.5 em. Multiple sutures and staples are attached. The mucosal surface is pink tan and focally hemorrhagic. The sutures and staples are removed and the soft tissue is entirely submitted. Summary of sections: U -undesignated  Continued on next page  ----------------------------------------------------- ------ Page 5 of 6 Summary Part 1, Block 1 7 3 1 1 5 1 Part 2, Block 1 1 Part 3, Block 1 Part 4, Block 2 Part Block 1 1 part Block 1 1 5, . , Part 7, Block 1 Part 8, Block 1 of Sectional SP: SP: SP: SP: SP: SP: SP; SP: Sigmoid colon, resection Sect. site PCs DM 1 LN l PLN 3 PM 1 RM 1 T 5 U 1 Gallbladder, excisio:tr- Sect. site PCs G 1  1 Lymph node of callot, exciaion Sect. Site PCs 1n 1 Hepatic artery lymph node, excision Sect. Site 1n Left fallopian Sect. Site f o tube tCs and ovary, PCs 1 1 2 Right fallopian tube and ovary, Sect. Site PCs f 1 0 1 Proximal ring, excision Sect. Site PC. u 1 Distal ring, excision Sect. Site PCs u 1  Continued on next page excision excision  , - ------ Page 6 9 6  End of Report  
6TCGA : Sample ID : Diagnosis: This is a poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma of the ascending colon with extensive anaplastic areas of solid carcinoma, with a histopathological grade G3 to 4 differentiation, with ulcerations of the inner tumor surface, with necroses, with peritumorous, chronic recurrent inflammation, with tumor infiltration in the layers of the colon wall as far as the subserous fatty connective tissue, with carcinomatous lymphangiosis, with moderate chronic lymphadenitis of the tumor-free lymph nodes 016, as well as tumor-free overview sections from the resection margins and from the reticular fatty tissue. According to these prepared sections ,the tumor spread of the colon carcinoma corresponds to the tumor stage pT3, pN2, MX, Ll, RO 10 Deb-0-3 C4AIC44O-A-,pros 81401-3 .SI -k: A.Aan-cC fr CI8 -1 . 331i 0 UUID:C5E7092D- BSA0-48F7-8929-9F671SA02276 TCGA-AA-A01Q-01A-PR Redacted 1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 111111111111111111111111111 I1 111 11IVI1III 111111111111111111111 0
 SPECIMEN A. Omentum B. Right colon CLINICAL NOTES PRE- OP DIAGNOSIS: Right colon cancer FROZEN SECTION DIAGNOSIS A - Benign fibromembranous and adipose tissue. A 4 mm stone is also present. GROSS DESCRIPTION A. Received fresh for frozen section labeled omentum. It consists of a portion of soft glistening pink fibrofatty tissue measuring 2.4 x 1.2 x 0.8 cm. On section it is soft and pink. There is a 0.4 cm. hard yellow stone embedded within the tissue. The entire specimen ex r the stone is submitted in one block for frozen section. B. The specimen consists of a right colon which is partially covered with pink- tan smooth glistening serosa and abundant yellow lobular fat. There is a long suture marking the right colic and ileocolic pedicles. The specimen is stapled at both ends. The specimen is predominantly covered with pink- tan smooth glistening serosa with abundant yellow lobular fat. The small bowel is 5.5 cm. long and the colon is 36 cm. long. The specimen is open and partially filled with dark bloody brown diffluent fecal material. The mucosa of the small bowel is smooth glistening having a circumference of 3.5 cm. There is an appendix present which is 6.0 x 0.7 cm. The colonic mucosa is pink- tan, smooth glistening and edematous showing multiple lesions. There is a 3.7 x 3 x 0.5 cm. ulcerated tumor located 4.5 cm. distal from the ileocecal valve. It is likely it extends through the muscularis propria, coming within 0.7 cm. of the radial margin. This tumor mass is 27.8 cm. from the GROSS DESCRIPTION distal margin. A sample is taken for tissue procurement. There is also a large sessile exophytic polyp which is 5.5 x 3.5 x 3.0 cm. This comes within 18 cm of the distal margin. There are a few additional polyps grossly identified, one on the ileocecal valve and others toward the distal end. These average 0.5 cm. to 1.0 cm. in greatest dimension and show no discrete invasions grossly identified in the large polyp previously described. Multiple lymph nodes grossly identified in the fat. Representative sections of the specimen are submitted as follows: Block 1 - Representative luminal margin; block 2 - ileocecal valve with polyps; block 3 - entire appendix, proximal end inked; blocks 4- 6 - Representative section of tumor to radial margin, ends normal; blocks 7, 8 - additional polypoid lesions toward distal end, full thickness; blocks 9- 12 - entire polypoid lesion full thickness; block 13 - ileocolic pedicle, block 14, additional tied off pedicle located distally; block 15 - three possible lymph nodes; block 16 - four possible lymph nodes; block 17 - four possible lymph nodes; block 18 - four possible lymph nodes; block 19 - four possible lymph nodes; block 20 - one possible lymph node. RS- 20 MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION A. Micro A performed. B. Multiple lesions are present within the right colon, one of which is an ulcerated adenocarcinoma. Please see the template below. Histologic type: Infiltrating adenocarcinoma. Histologic grade: Moderately differentiated. Primary tumor pT: The tumor minimally extends into pericolonic fat, pT3. Proximal margin: Negative for tumor. Distal margin: Negative for tumor. MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION Circumferential radial margin: Negative. Distance of tumor from closest margin: 27.8 cm from the distal margin Vascular invasion: Negative. Regional lymph nodes pN: All 21 regional lymph nodes are negative for metastatic disese, 021, pN0. Non- lymph node pericolonic tumor: None. Distant metastasis pM: Cannot be assessed. Other findings: Within the right colon, there is a large sessile tubulovillous adenoma. Additional smaller polyps are noted including two adenomas and one hyperplastic polyp. Appendix, no significant pathology. 3, 14, 5 DIAGNOSIS A. Omentum, small excision - Benign fibroadeipose tissue with stone. B. Right colon, right hemicolectomy - Infiltrating moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma of the right colon, extending into pericolonic fat, pT3. All 21 lymph nodes negative for metastatic disease. All margins negative for tumor. Large sessile tubulovillous adenoma, also present as well as two much smaller adenomatous polyps and one hyperplastic polyp. --- End Of Report --- 
 SPECIMEN Right colon CLINICAL NOTES PRE- OP DIAGNOSIS: Right colon cancer GROSS DESCRIPTION Received fresh, labeled right colon is a previously unopened, 23 cm. segment of proximal right colon with attached 8 cm. of distal ileum surfaced by smooth to scabrous tan- pink serosa with a moderate amount of attached mesocolon, mesentery and unremarkable omentum. On opening, there is a well- circumscribed, 6.5 x 4.4 cm. centrally necrotic white pink- red tumor mass 3 cm. distal to the ileocecal valve. On sectioning, the lesion has a maximal thickness of 1.2 cm., grossly extending into the muscularis to within 0.4 cm. of the inked free radial serosal surface. Two additional mucosal polyps averaging 0.5 cm. are present within the colon, 7.5 cm. proximal and 9 cm. distal to the tumor. The remaining colonic mucosa is unremarkable, glistening tan- pink with regular folds and the wall averages 0.4 cm in thickness. The ileal mucosa is unremarkable glistening tan pink with regular folds and the wall averages 0.4 cm. in thickness. The appendix is not present. A portion of tumor and a portion of normal mucosa are submitted for tissue procurement as requested. Several soft tan- pink tissues in keeping with lymph nodes measuring up to 0.9 cm. in greatest dimension are recovered from the attached mesocolon and mesentery. Representative sections are submitted in 12 blocks as labeled. RS- 12. BLOCK SUMMARY: 1 - Proximal and distal margins; 2, 3 - tumor full thickness to inked free radial serosal surface; 4 - central tumor; 5 - tumor to normal mucosa; 6 - colonic polyp; 7 - ICV; 8 - random colon and ileum; 9-1 1 - six ole lymph nodes per cassette; 12 - five whole lymph nodes. MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION Histologic type: Adenocarcinoma Histologic grade: Moderately to poorly differentiated Primary tumor pT: Tumor invades through the muscularis propria focally into the pericolonic fat pT3 Proximal margin: Negative for tumor Distal margin: Negative for tumor Circumferential radial margin: Negative for tumor Distance of tumor from closest margin: 11 cm. from proximal margin ileum Vascular invasion: Lymphatic space invasion is identified, best seen in slide 4, no venous or arterial space invasion is identified Regional lymph nodes pN: 25 lymph nodes are dissected from the specimen, they were all negative for metastatic tumor pN0 Non- lymph node pericolonic tumor: Not identified Distant metastasis pM: Cannot evaluate pMx Other findings: Approximately 30 of the tumor has mucinous differentiation and is seen in blocks 4 and 5. The most deeply invasive portion of the tumor is not mucinous and is poorly differentiated and seen in blocks 2 and 3. The ileocecal valve is unremarkable. No appendix is identified. An additional tubular adenoma is noted in block 6. 5x1, 3260F DIAGNOSIS A. Colon, right, segmental resection: Invasive adenocarcinoma, moderately to poorly differentiated, invasive into pericolonic fat pT3 Lymphovascular space invasion present. 25 lymph nodes are negative for metastatic tumor pN0. Additional adenomatous polyp. --- End Of Report --- 
Findings and diagnosis relating to the problem: The material in I - as regards b lock A - shows a marked finding in terms of an adenocarcinoma of the colon with characteristic tumor cell groups, mostly in a tubular arrangement, and a marked tendency to spr ead to the fatty connective tissue, as well as moderate to low -grade lymph nodes G2 to 3, pT3, L1, V1 The material also shows seven conglomerate metastases of the carcinoma described with extensive necrosis 7 of 18 and  with regard to the resection m argins  free resection margins, here of the cryptic epithelium type with goblet cells, r egular submucosa and muscularis and in II a regular anastomosis ring, here with regular cryptic epithelium, lined with goblet cells, isolated lymph follicles and regu lar submucosa and muscularis. Tumor classification : ICDO -DA M -81403, G 2 to 3, pT 3, L1, V1, pN 2, locally R0 . 
CGA-AS-3808 SPECIMEN Right colon CLINICAL NOTES PRE-OP DIAGNOSIS: Carcinoma right colon. GROSS DESCRIPTION Received fresh for tissue procurement labeled right colon11 is a previously unopened 15 em. segment of proximal right colon with attached 15 ern. distal ileum surfaced by smooth to scabrous tan pink serosa Nith a copious amount of attached mesocolon and mesentery. No appendix is present. The proximal and distal margins measure 3.2 and 5.2 em. in circumference respectively. On opening there is a well circumscribed, 4.4 x 4.0 em. rubbery tan white-red tumor mass within the cecal pouch, 1 em. distal to the ileocecal valve. A portion of tumor and a portion of normal are submitted for tissue procurement as requested. On sectioning, the tumor has a maximal thickness of 1.1 em., grossly extending through the muscularis to within 0.1 em. of the inked free serosal surface. The ileal mucosa and remaining colonic mucosa is unremarkable glistening tan pink .lith irregular folds and the walls average 0. 5 em. in thickness. Multiple soft pale tan to tan pink tissues in keeping with lymph nodes measuring up to 1.4 em. in greatest dimension are recovered from the attached mesocolon and mesentery. Representative sections are submitted in 13 blocks as labeled. RS13. BLOCK SUMMARY: 1 -Proximal and distal margins; 2-4 -tumor full thickness to inked free radial serosal surface; 5 -tumor to normal; 6 -ileum; 7 -ICB; 8 -colon; 9 and 10 -eight whole lymph nodes per cassette; 11 -six whole lymph nodes; 12 and 13 -one bisected lymph node per cassette. MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION Histologic type: Adenocarcinoma with mucinous differentiation. Histologic grade: Moderately-differentiated. Primary tumor pT : Tumor invades through the muscularis propria into the pericolonic fat pT3. Proximal margin: Negative. Distal margin: Negative. Circumferential radial margin: Negative. Vascular invasion: Negative. Regional lymph nodes pN: 24 lymph nodes are negative for metastatic carcinoma pNO. Non-lymph node pericolonic tumor: Absent. Distant metastasis pM : Cannot be assessed pMx . DIAGNOSIS Colon, right and terminal ileum, resection: Invasive moderately-differentiated colonic adenocarcinoma with mucinous differentiation extending through the wall of the colon into the pericolonic fat. The proximal, distal and radial margins of resection are free of tumor. Twenty four mesenteric lymph nodes are negative for ---End Of Rep01i --- 
 TCGA-A6-3807 SPECIMEN A. Sigmoid colon B. Left tube and ovary C. Right tube and ovary D. Appendix CLINICAL NOTES PRE-OP DIAGNOSIS: Sigmoid colon. GROSS DESCRIPTION A. Received fresh, subsequently fixed in formalin, labeled 11Sigmoid colon is a 13.5 ern. long portion of colon Vlhich is opened at both ends. The ends are arbitrarily inked blue and black. The serosa is pink-tan smooth glistening and shows a scabrous X surface located 5 em. from the black-inked margins. This scabrous focus is inked blue. The specimen is opened to shovJ a pink-tan smooth glistening mucosa with normal to abundant folds having an average circumference of 4 ern. There is an ulcerated lesion located 3 em. from the black-inked end which is circumferential and is 5.5 4.5 x 1.2 em. There is also a pedunculated polyp measuring 1.5 em. located 6 em. from the blue-inked end. This appears to show no additional invasion grossly identified. The large ulcerated lesion shows invasion through the muscularis propria and possibly into the fat coming ;lithin 7 em. of the radial margin. Subjacent lymph nodes, however, are firm and indurated. The remainder of the mucosa is pink-tan Nith normal to abundant folds. Representative sections of the specimen are submitted as follows: BLOCK SUMMARY: 1 -representative luminal margins; 2-4 - representative section of tumor, normal and fat; 5 -representative radial margins; 6 -entire pedunculated polyp vdth base,- 7 - 9 possible lymph nodes; 8 - 9 possible lymph nodes; 9 - 9 possible lymph nodes; 10 - 9 possible lymph nodes; 11 - 2 possible lymph nodes; 12 - 1 possible lymph node bisected; 13 - 1 possible lymph GROSS DESCRIPTION node sectioned; 14 and 15 - mottled lymph node. RS-15 sections of largest B. Received fresh, subsequently fixed in formalin, labeled 11left tube and ovary11 is a 3.3 x 3.0 x 2.5 em. cystic and cerebriform ovary. This is attached to a 4.0 x 0.5 em. fimbriated fallopian tube having a 2.0 em. paratubal cyst. The cyst is partially filled with clear fluid and shows no papillary excresences 0.5 present. The ovarian cyst is 1.2 em. with no papillary excresences present. No other discrete gross lesions are identified. Representative sections of the specimen are submitted four cassettes. RS-4. C. Received fresh, subsequently fixed in formalin, labeled right tube and ovary is a 2.5 x 2.2 x 1.7 em. pink tan cerebriform ovary Vhich has a fimbriated fallopian tube measuring 4.0 x 0.7 em. The specimen has a paratubal cyst measuring 1.2 x 0.7 em. It is partially filled with clear fluid, shows no papillary excresences present. The ovary is sectioned to show a white tan mottled cut surface with no discrete gross lesions identified. Representative sections of the specimen are submitted four cassettes. RS-4. D. Received in formalin, labeled appendix is a 7.2 x em. appendix v1hich is partially covered with pink-tan smooth glistening serosa and yellow lobular fat. The specimen is sectioned to show an intact wall averaging 0.3 em. No other discrete gross lesions are identified. Representative sections of the specimen are submitted in one cassette. RS-1. Proximal end is inked blue. MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION Histologic type: Adenocarcinoma Histologic grade: Moderately-differentiated Primary tumor pT3 : Carcinoma is into and through the muscularis propria1 into the subserosal fat. Proximaldistalradial margins: Negative. Vascular invasion: Present. Regional lymph nodes pN: Metastatic carcinoma in 5 of 24 lymph nodes  524 . Non-lymph node pericolonic tumor: Not identified. Other findings: Tubular adenoma; unremarkable appendix and fallopian tubes; bilateral adnexal cysts and ovarian follicular cysts. 5, 3x2, 1 DIAGNOSIS A. Colon, sigmoid, segmental resection: Adenocarcinoma, moderately-differentiated, extending into and through the muscularis propria pT3. Margins of excision negative. Metastatic carcinoma in 5 of 24 lymph nodes 524. B. Ovary and fallopian tube, left, salpingo-oophorectomy: Simple adnexal cyst. Corpus luteal cyst. Unremarkable fallopian tube. C. Ovary and fallopian tube1 right, salpingo-oophorectomy: Simple adnexal cyst. Ovarian follicular cyst Unremarkable fallopian tube. D. Appendix, incidental appendectomy: No specific pathologic abnormality. ---End Of Report ---
RUN DATE:PAGE 1 RUN TIME: Specimen Inquiry RUN USER: User: Lab Database: PATIENT: ACCT : AGESX: ROOM: REG: REG DR: DOB: BED: DIS: STATUS: SPEC b: RECD: STATUS: COLL: TIME IN FORMALIN: 3:49 hrs. CLINICAL INFORMATION: Pro-Op Diagnosis: Colon obstruction Remarks:CSSpecimens: Colon right PA RIGHT COLON WITH ATTACHED TERMINAL ILEUM AND APPENDIX, RIGHT HEMICOLECTOMY: -MODERATELY DIFFERENTIATED ADENOCARCINOMA OF THE ASCENDING COLON --CARCINOMA MEASURES 4.5 CM IN GREATEST DIMENSION AND EXTENDS THROUGH THE BOWEL WALL INTO THE SUBSEROSAL FAT AND FOCALLY EXTENDS TO THE VISCERAL PERITONEAL SURFACE pT4a -LYMPH-VASCULAR INVASION IDENTIFIED -SURGICAL MARGINS OF RESECTION FREE OF TUMOR WITH THE CLOSEST SURGICAL MARGIN RADIAL MARGIN 5 CM --THREE DISCONTINUOUS TUMOR DEPOSITS IN SUBSEROSAL TISSUE -METASTATIC ADENOCARCINOMA IN 4 OF 33 SUBSEROSAL LYMPH NODES WITH FOCAL EXTRACAPSULAR EXTENSION -SEE COMMENT FOR SURGICAL PATHOLOGY CANCER CASE SUMMARY CHECKLIST UUID:53BA96AA -B755-460C-93CF-EDSBCCD031F6 TCGA-NH -A6GA -01A-PR Re d ac 111 It ii 111111111111111111111111IIII l ll 11111f11f11111111111111111 ICOMMENTSII III I I II I II II I I II I II II 111 11II II VIII I II I I II I I II II III I I VI I IIII SURGICAL PATHOLOGY CANCER CASE SUMMARY - CAP APPROVEDIi 1111IIIIII I II I IIII II II111111I I I II I III I IIIIIIII11I111111 II III Specimen: Terminal ileum, cecum, appendix, ascending colon Procedure: Right hemicolectomy Tumor Site: Right ascending colon Tumor Size: 4.5 cm in greatest dimension Macroscopic Tumor Perforation: Not identified HIstologic Type: Adenocarcinoma Histologic Grade: Low-grade Microscopic Tumor Extension: Tumor penetrates to the surface of the visceral peritoneum serosa - focal Margins: Distance of invasive carcinoma from closest margin: 5 cm; Radial Proximal: Uninvolved by invasive carcinoma Distal: Uninvolved by invasive carcinoma Circumferential: Uninvolved by invasive carcinoma Treatment Effect: No prior treatment Lymph-Vascular: Present CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGEVrs tedRUN DATE: RUN TIME: RUN USER: User:Specimen InquiryPAGE 2 SPECU: PATIENT: Continued COMMENT S Perineural Invasion: Tumor Deposits:Continued Not identified Present number of deposits: 3 Pathologic Staging: Primary Tumor: Regional LymphpT4a Nodes: pN2a Number examined: 33 Number involved: 4 Distant Metastasis: Not applicable GROSS DESCRIPTION: The specimen in formalin is right colon with attached terminal ileum and appendix, right hemicolectomy. The colon measures 25 cm in length by 3 cm in diameter, the small bowel measures 7.5 cm in length by 2 cm in diameter, and the appendix measures 10 cm in length by 1 cm in diameter. The closest radial margin is 5 cm. 3.5 cm distal to the ileocecal valve there is a nearly circumferential ulcerating partially obstructing mass measuring 3 cm in length by 4.5 cm in width. At the distal end of this there is an associated polyp measuring 1 x 0.8 x 1 cm. The tumor is located 14 cm proximal to the distal margin of resection. Cut section through the ulcerated massreveals hard pinkish-tan tissue infiltrating through the wall into the overlying subserosa. The remainder of the mucosa throughout the colon and small bowel appears normal. There is one grossly enlarged subserosal lymph node measuring up to 3 cm in diameter containing hard white tissue with central necrosis which is soft and pasty. Other lymph nodes vary from small and rubbery to slightly enlarged. There is one slightly enlarged firm lymph node submitted separate from the intact specimen .Sections are submitted as follows: 1-proximal terminal ileum margin of resection 2-distal colon margin of resection 3-appendix 4-7-mass in colon 8-grossly enlarged lymph node and separately submitted lymph node 9-14 - remainder of subserosal lymph nodes A portion of the colon masshas been processed with tumor tissue banking protocol. MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION: The slides are examined and evaluated. INTRAOPERATIVE CONSULTATION: Specimen processed for tissue banking per protocol.  CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGERUN DATE: RUN TIME:Specimen Inquiry RUN USER:User: Lab Database; SPEC b: Image Image Image Image Image Image ImagePATIENT Signed signature on filePAGE 3 Continued 1  END OF REPORT r RUN DATE: RUN TIME: RUN USER: User:Specimen inquiry Lab Database:PAGE I PATIENT ACCT o AGESX: ROOM: REG:REG DR: DOB: BED: DIS: STATUS: SPEC : RECD: STATUS: COLL: TIME IN FORMALIN: hrs. CLINICAL INFORMATION: Pre-Op Diagnosis :ColonCA; liver mass; RO metastatic Remarks: Specimen s:Fine needle aspirate cytology liver FINE NEEDLE ASPIRATE CYTOLOGY LIVER: -MALIGNANT TUMOR CELLS PRESENT CONSISTENT WITH METASTATIC ADENOCARCINOMA OF COLONIC PRIMARY ORIGIN GROSS DESCRIPTION: The specimen is obtained byunder CT guidance, Threepasses aremade from which three smears are stained with Pap stain and one smearis stained withDiff-Quik stain for immediate assessment for specimen adequacy. Needle rinses are combinedfor coil block. INITIAL IMPRESSION: IMMEDIATE STUDY FINE NEEDLE ASPIRATE: -MALIGNANT TUMOR CELLS PRESENT, ADEQUATE FOR EVALUATION, TELEPHONED REPORT TO Signed signature on file  END OF REPORT RUN DATE: RUN TIME: RUN USER: PATIENT: REG DR: SPEC a:specimen Inquiry User:Lab Database: ACCTU M:AGESX:ROOM: REG:DOB:BED: DIS:STATUS: RECD:STATUS: COLL:TIME IN FORMALIN :6:JU hrs. CLINICAL INFORMATION: Pre-Op Diagnosis:RHO metastatic colon CA Remarks: Specimens:CT-guided needle biopsy liver CT-GUIDED NEEDLE BIOPSY, LIVER: METASTATIC ADENOCARCINOMA CONSISTENT WITH COLONIC PRIMARYPAGE 1 GROSS DESCRIPTION: The specimen in formalin in one container is several core biopsy fragments of tan tissuewhich in aggregate measure10 x 2 x 1 mm. totally submitted as block 1. Signed signature on file  END OF REPORT  -iteria Gi,;gnoses Gisrrepancy Primary Twmor Site Drcrpanc:y !--- Prot P. 1aignar cy Nistory- T al;Sync nnqu -Prim; L1 i ca,e is L-1 Pviewer in
 Addended Report   Resident: Pathologist: PATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS: A. SPECIMEN DESIGNATED PERIGASTRIC LYMPH NODES: Heterotopic pancreas with focal pancreatic intraepithelial neoplasia type 1 PanIN1 No lymph node is present. B. SPECIMEN DESIGNATED RIGHT COLON, HEMICOLECTOMY, MUCINOUS ADENOCARCINOMA, low grade, moderately differentiated 7.0 m in greatest dimension. The tumor forms a fungating mass and has an infiltrating border. The tumor invades through the subserosa to the serosal surface. The proximal, distal, and radial resection margins are negative for tumor. Invasive tumor is 152mm from the proximal resection margin, 206mm fromthe distal resection margin, and 21mm from the radial resection margin. Lymphovascular invasion is not identified. Venous invasion is not identified. Perineural invasion is not identified. Peritumoral lymphoid response including Crohns-like infiltrate is mild. Residual adenoma is present. Regional lymph nodes positive:total: 5:31 AJCC Classification T4 N2 MX. CLINICAL DATA: History: None provided. Operation: Laparo.scopic converted to open right hemicolectomy. Operative Findings: None provided. Clinical Diagnosis: Colon cancer. TISSUE SUBMITTED: A1. Perigastrie lymph node. B2. Right hemicolectomy to FS. GROSS DESCRIPTION: The specimen is received fresh, in two parts, each labeled with the patients name and medical record number. Part A, 111. Perigastric lymph node, consists of a redbrown fibroadipose tissue fragment 2.5 x 1.5 x 1.0 cm containing a single lymph node. The specimen is entirely submitted. Micro AI-A2: Lymph node, bisected, 1 frag per cassette, I11III Part B, 112. Right hemicolectomy, consists of a hemicolectomy specimen 37.5 x 7.5 em, including an appendix 7.0 x 0.5 cm and the distal ileum 3.0 x 2.0 em, which includes a stapled resection margin blue, 2.0 em and a distal stapled resection margin blacK, 2.8 em. There is a fungating tanred mass 7.0 x 4.0 x 2.3 cm, which measures 12.6 cm to the ileocecal valve, 15.2 cm to the proximal stapled resection margin, 20.6 em to the distal stapled resection margin, and 2.1 em to the radial margin. There is a second tanyellow polyp Page: 100 Pathology Report ,,,,,,,,.,,,,.,...,h .:- .. ,.. ... .., ,.  .,.,,.-,,, -, ... , .,-.-.. ,- ..... ..-... ,. ...... ,.,,.- ,,--n ,,,,,, .Ol ...,. .....  .... ,...., ,,, ,:. -,, .. ,  ,. , .. , .. ; -,,,  . 0.3 em in diameter, which measures 4.0 em to the distal stapled resection margin and 33.0 em to the proximal stapled resection margin. No other lesions are identified. Representative sections of the tumor and normal bowel are submitted to the tissue bank. TIenty five candidate lymph nodes largest -3.2 x 1.9 x 1.6 em are identified in the mesentery. Representative sections of the larger two lymph nodes are submitted. The remaining lymph nodes are entirely submitted. Nicro Bl: Proximal stapled resection margin, Nicro B2: Distal stapled resection margin, .iiiij Nicro 83: Radial resection margin, 1 frag,! Micro 84: Tumor with serosal involVlI!t Micro B5: Additional tumor, 1 frag, Micro B6: Tumor with proximal adjacen mucosa, 1 fra.giiiii Micro B7: Tumor with distal adjacent mucosa, 1 frag, t1icro B8: Polyp and normal mucosa, 2 frags,  Micro 89: Appendix, tip and perpendicular dend, 3 frags,1IIIII Micro 810: Appendix, cross sections, 4 fraqsJIIIIII Micro Bll: Largest candidate node, 1 frag, Micro 812: Second largest node, 1 friJfJg, Micro 813: Third largest node, 2 fra s Micro, B14: Candidate node, 2 frags, Micro BI5-B17: Candidate nodes, 7 frags per cassette, I11III By hisher signature below, the senior physician certifies that heshe personally conducted a microscopic examination gross only exam if so stated of the described specimens and rendered or confirmed the diagnosis es related thereto. Electronically signed on ADDENDUM: Immunostains for MLH1, MSH6, PMS2, and MSH2 reveal intact nuclear staining in tumor cells. In a very small percentage of tumors, there is an underlying hereditary genetic defect despite intact nuclear expression in tumor cells. Clinical correlation is required. Addendum 1I1 Electronically signed on - Page: 2 of: 
Diagnosis diagnoses Right hemicolectomy preparation with a colon carcinoma characterized histologically as a moderately differentiated colorectal adenocarcinoma, located 6 cm from Bauhins valve, and measuring a max of 2 cm in diameter. Invasive spreading of the tumor up to the level of the submucosa. Appendix with postinflammatory fibrosis of the wall and fibrous apical obliteration. Oral and aboral resection margins are tumor -free as is the greater omentum. 31 mesocolic and mesenteric lymph nodes are tu mor-free with uncharacteristically reactive lesions . Therefore the tumor stage is: pT1, pN0 031 L0, V0; G2 
 SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT  Addendum  Clinical Diagnosis  History: Colonoscopy found nearly obstructing hepatic flexure colon cancer and sigmoid cancer CT a scan shown mass at hepatic flexure colon previously polypectomy at sigmoid colon. Hepatic flexure cancer and malignant polyp at sigmoid. Specimens Submitted: 1: Total abdominal colectomy 2: Proximal anastomotic ring 3: Distal anastomotic ring DIAGNOSIS: 1. Total abdominal colectomy: Tumor Type: Adenocarcinoma with mucinous features 50 mucinous component Histologic Grade: Moderately differentiated Tumor Location: Hepatic flexure Tumor Size: Length is 4 cm Width is 5.5 cm Maximal thickness is 0.4 cm Tumor Budding: Absent Increased Tumor Infiltrating Lymphocytes: Present Precursor Lesions: Tubulovillous adenoma Deepest Tumor Invasion: Subserosal adipose tissue andor mesenteric fat Gross Tumor Perforation: Not identified Lymphovascular Invasion: Not identified Large Venous Invasion: Not Identified Perineural Invasion:  Continued on next page  ------------------------------------------------------------ Page 2 of 5 Not identified Surgical Margins: Free of tumor PolypsMucosa Dysplasia away from the carcinoma: Not Identified Non-Neoplastic Bowel: Unremarkable Tattoo pigment is present consistent with the site of prior procedure Appendix: Unremarkable Lymph Nodes: Number with metastasis: 0 Total number examined: 43 Tumor deposits in pericolorectal soft tissue: Not Identified Tumor Staging AJCC 7th Edition: pT3 Tumor invades through the muscularis propria into pericolorectal tissues Lymph Node Stage AJCC 7th Edition: N0 No regional lymph node metastasis -------------------------------------------------------- Note: The results of immunohistochemical stains for mismatch repair proteins will be reported in an addendum. 2. Ileum, proximal margin; resection: -Segment of small intestine with no pathologic diagnosis. 3. Colon, distal margin; resection: -Segment of colon with no pathologic diagnosis. I ATTEST THAT THE ABOVE DIAGNOSIS IS BASED UPON MY PERSONAL EXAMINATION OF THE SLIDES ANDOR OTHER MATERIAL, AND THAT I HAVE REVIEWED AND APPROVED THIS REPORT. Special Studies: Result Special Stain Comment RECUT Gross Description: 1. The specimen is received fresh, labeled Total abdominal colectomy and consists of a segment of terminal ileum, cecum with attached appendix and colon. The terminal ileum measures 7 cm in length and 3 cm in circumference  Continued on next page  ------------------------------------------------------------ Page 3 of 5 at the proximal resected margin. The remaining colon measures 70 cm in length with a circumference of 3.5 cm at the distal resected margin. The attached appendix measures 5 cm in length and averages 0.5 cm in diameter. The appendiceal and intestinal serosa is pink tan and smooth. Focally hemorrhagic lobulated yellow tan adipose tissue spans the length of the specimen measuring up to 3 cm in thickness. The specimen is opened to reveal a mass lesion measuring 4 cm in length and 5.5 cm in width. The mass is located in the ascending colon, 18 cm from the proximal margin and 50 cm from the distal margin. Sectioning shows that the tumor invades the muscularis. The depth of invasion is 0.4 cm grossly. The remaining mucosa shows numerous diverticula. NO gross lesion is identified in the sigmoid colon. Two possible tattoo sites are present. One is 26 cm from the proximal margin and the other is 30 cm from the distal margin. The attached adipose tissue is thoroughly examined and all identified lymph nodes are submitted. Representative sections of the specimen are submitted. Summary of sections: P - proximal margin shave D - distal margin shave T - tumor A - appendix representative sections RS -representative sections LN - lymph nodes BLN - bisected lymph nodes ADD-tattoo sites 2. The specimen is received in formalin wrapped around anastomotic tan labeled Proximal anastomotic ring. It consists of a ring of brown-tan mucosa with attached soft tissue, sutures, and staples measuring 1.7 x 1.5 x 1.0 cm. The mucosa is trimmed off and submitted entirely. Summary of sections: U - undesignated 3. The specimen is received in formalin, labeled Distal anastomotic ring and consists of a ring of pink tan soft tissue measuring 3.0 x 1.8 x 1.7 cm. Multiple sutures and staples are attached. The mucosal surface is pink tan and focally hemorrhagic. The sutures and staples are removed and the soft tissue is entirely submitted. Summary of sections: U - undesignated Summary of Sections: Part 1: Total abdominal colectomy  Continued on next page  ------------------------------------------------------------ Page 4 of 5 Block Sect. Site PCs 1 A 1 3 ADD 3 6 BLN 12 1 D 1 10 LN 30 1 P 1 2 RS 2 6 T 6 Part 2: Proximal anastomotic ring Block Sect. Site PCs 1 u 1 Part 3: Distal anastomotic ring Block Sect. Site PCs 1 u 1 ProceduresAddenda: Addendum Addendum Diagnosis Results of immunohistochemical staining for DNA mismatch repair proteins are as follows: MLH1:Staining absent in tumor MSH2:Staining present in tumor MSH6:Staining present in tumor PMS2: Staining absent in tumor Conclusion: Immunohistochemical stains for mismatch repair proteins demonstrate loss of expression on MLH1 and PMS2. MSH2 and MSH6 expression are preserved. These results imply an underlying deficiency in DNA mismatch repair function. Clinical correlation is suggested Addendum Comment  Continued on next page  ------------------------------------------------------------ Page 5 of 5  End of Report  
Pathology form Specimen Informationl Collected by: Preserved by: ....., :. .. ;, ..........  :,,,cc ... .8PECIMEN TYPE  ofsarhples proyided . ..0;0 ..  .. h;iL.c f,,:e, FIozen Paraffin Block BloodSerumPlasma Slide Diseased I Normal Diseased I Normal Diseased I Normal Diseased Normal Lf-I 2-, --4 I 2- I --4 2. I Time to LN2 I Time to Formalin Time to LN2 . , ,if . .;;. 2- min :f min min . . ,.eL .,,?. ,,c , .....  : . Ai pATHOLOGICAJ; DESCRIPTION.fL:. ii,. ., . ..... Primary Tumor Organ Size Extension of Tumor Distance to NAT c, d-V h.M. :? A I, x hX  em  em fI Lymph Nodes Location  Examined  Metastasized Distant Metastasis Organ Detailed Location Size Pathological Staging pT3 Nz, M 0 Stage: LL Notes: 4 IMicroscopic Descriptionl , c.g,.; ;,: ,n, ?. ,Histological Pattern  , .;c, ,,.cc,c ,, Cell Distribution  - Structural Pattern  - Diffuse  Streaming Mosaic Storiform Necrosis  Fibrosis Lymphocytic Infiltration  Palisading Vascular Invasion , Cystic Degeneration Clusterlzed Bleeding Alveolar Formation Myxoid Change Indian File Psammomacalcification I;. ,T ,c ,-,,,, ,;;;  ,,-,Celliila!, Diffeientiationi;;:,,. ,;;;.Xc ., ,.,, ,,;:;i, Squamous  -Adenomatous  -Sarcomatous  -Lymphomatous  - Squamoid Cell Glandular cell 0 Round Cell large Cell Spindle Cell Cell Stratification Fibroblast Small Cell Keratin Secretion Osteoblast RS CellRS Like Desmosome Intraeyt. Vacuole Lipoblast Inflam. Cell Pearl Gland formation - Myoblast Plasma Cell Cellular Differentiation: Well Moderate 10 Poor , -;;;;,. ,:;;;;,, n   Nuclear Appearance-i . , ,.r, ., , ,y,., ,.,:,:,c-;,  Nuclear Atypia: 0 I II III Aniso Nucleosis ;0 Hyperchromatism 0 Nucleolar Prominent 0 Multinucleated Giant Cell V Mitotic Activity 2 Nuclear Grade:  :tS;,it:if, , . , ::,,H;;;-:-,,,;H, ,, ,, ,IHBDafa ,;;, ,,. ;.c, , ;,; ;, Marker Result Value Date ER o Negative o Positive PR o Negative o Positive Her-2neu o Negative o Positive B-Cell Marker o Negative o Positive T-Cell Marker o Negative o Positive Other: o Negative o Positive Other: o Negative o Positive IFinal Pathology Repol1l Comments: NSOLIDATED DIAGNOSTIC PATHOLOGY FORM Microscopic Appearance: 1 n l Islo ogical pattern: CELL DISTRIBUTION  . STRUCTURAL PATTERN  - Diffuse 1-Streaming Mosaic K Storifonn Necrosis C, Fibrosis khic Infiltration q Palisadi Vascular Invasion f Cystic Dneration Clusterized i Bleedi!. Alveolar Fonnation 0 Myxoid Change Indian File I PsammomaCalcification 2. Cellula,. featu,.es: Squamous  . Adenomalous  . SarCol;llatous  -Hmphomatou.  - qualnoid Cell Glandular cell IT Round Cell Large Cell Spindle Cell Cell Stratification OJ Fibroblast Small Cell Keratin Secretion 10 Osteoblast RS CelllRS Like Desmosome Intra9l. Vacuole IPI Lipoblast InOam. Cen Pearl Gland formation r Myoblast Plasma Cell Otherwise Specified:  jjJ,-PJl-j-JZ t?:,  s,. fly ?, j;SJ;; 2. Cellular Diffe,.entiation: I Well Moderately Poor 3. Nuclea,. Atvoa: 0 I II III Nuclear Appearan  Aniso Nucleosis Hyperchromatism Nucleolar Prominent Multinucleated Giant Cen Mitotic Activitv Nuclear Grade .  dLIALQ1fLf:?------Histological Diagnosis: -- INTEGRATED REPORT OF FINDINGS BY CONTRIBUTOR AND STAFF FOR RESEARCH USE ONLY. 
TCGA-A6-2671 SPECIMEN Left colon CLINICAL NOTES PRE-OP DIAGNOSIS: Sigmoid colon GROSS DESCRIPTION to Received fresh, subsequently fixed in formalin, labeled left colon is a 22 ern long portion of colon. The specimen is intact, partially covered with pink-tan, smooth glistening serosa and abundant yellov1 lobular fat, The specimen is unoriented. One end is inked blue and the opposite end is inked black. The serosa is pink-tan smooth glistening and is partially covered with abundant yellow lobular fat. The specimen is opened show a pink-tan, smooth glistening mucosa with an average circumference of 5.5 em. The specimen shows a 3.7 x 2.5 x 0.7 em exophytic lesion which comes within 4.5 em of the nearest luminal margin. The cut surface of the tumor shows invasion through the muscularis propria, and continuity with serosal puckering. There is invasion into the fat, coming within less than 1 em of the radial margin. The remainder of the mucosa is pink-tan, smooth glistening with normal folds, having an average circumference of 5.5 em. Lymph to nodes are grossly identified. Representative sections submitted as follows: Block 1 -representative luminal margin; block 2 -tumor to normal and serosal umbilication; block 3 -representative section of tumor to fat and radial margin; block 4 -representative section of tumor to radial margin; blocks 5 and 6 -possibly mottled lymph node subjacent to tumor; block 7 -five possible lymph nodes subjacent tumor; block 8 -nine lymph nodes; black 10 possible lymph nodes. possible lymph nodes; block 9 -four possible -five possible lymph nodes; block 11 -six RS-6. GROSS DESCRIPTION - MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION 1 Histologic type: Adenocarcinoma Histologic grade: Moderately-differentiated Primary tumor: pT3 carcinoma extends through the muscularis propria, to less than 1 mm from the serosal surface, which is not directly involved. Proximal margin: Negative. Distal margin: Negative. Circumferential radial margin: negative; carcinoma is less than mm from the radial margin. Vascular invasion: Probable Regional lymph nodes pN : Metastatic carcinoma in three of 27 lymph nodes 327. Non-lymph node pericolonic tumor: four tumor nodules without associated lymphoid tissue identified. 5 DIAGNOSIS the Colon, sigmoid, segmental resection: Adenocarcinoma, moderately differentiated. -Carcinoma invades through the muscularis propria into the subserosal fat pT3. -Margins negative carcinoma less than 1 mm from the radial margin . -Metastatic carcinoma in three of 27 lymph nodes 327. -Non-lymph node pericolonic tumor deposits present within serosal fat four nodules. DIAGNOSIS 
SPECIMENS: A. STOMACH, TRANSVERSE COLON, RIGHT COLON, TERMINAL ILLEUM, PORTION OF SMALL INTEST B. GASTRIC SUTURE LINE DIAGNOSIS: A. TERMINAL ILEUM, RIGHT COLON, TRANSVERSE COLON, OMENTUM, MID JEJUNUM, GREATER CURVATURE OF STOMACH, AND ABDOMINAL WALL, EN BLOC RESECTION: - INVASIVE POORLY DIFFERENTIATED ADENOCARCINOMA INVOLVING PERICOLIC FAT AND GASTRIC MUSCULARIS PROPRIA AND SPARING GASTRIC MUCOSA - ADJACENT ACUTE SUPPURATIVE AND CHRONIC INFLAMMATION WITH ABSCESS FORMATION INVOLVING ADHERED SEGMENT OF SMALL INTESTINE WITH INTESTINAL PERFORATION, ABDOMINAL WALL SKELETAL MUSCLE, AND SUBCUTANEOUS ADIPOSE TISSUE ALL NEGATIVE FOR CARCINOMA - INVASIVE CARCINOMA SIZE 4.5 X 4.5 CM - FOCAL SQUAMOUS DIFFERENTIATION PRESENT - NO TUMOR SEEN IN TWENTY FIVE LYMPH NODES 025 - MARGINS NEGATIVE FOR CARCINOMA - GASTRIC MUCOSA WITH FOCAL CHRONIC GASTRITIS - ACUTE SEROSITIS - SEE TEMPLATE B. GASTRIC SUTURE LINE, EXCISION: - GASTRIC MUCOSA, NO TUMOR SEEN COLORECTAL CANCER TEMPLATE SPECIMEN TYPE: En bloc resection o f terminal ileum, right colon, transverse colon, mid jejunum, greater curvature of stomach, and abdominal wall TUMOR SITE: Transverse colon TUMOR CONFIGURATION: Infiltrative and ulcerating TUMOR SIZE: 4.5 x 4.5 cm HISTOLOGIC TYPE: Adenocarcinoma HISTOLOGIC GRADE: G3 EXTENT OF INVASION: Adjacent structures MARGINS: Negative for carcinoma proximal, distal, and radial LYMPHOVASCULAR INVASION: No definite invasion seen PERINEURAL INVASION: No definite invasion seen ADDITIONAL PATHOLOGIC FINDINGS: Abscess formation and dense adhesions EXTENT OF RESECTION: R0 LYMPH NODES: Negative 025 PATHOLOGIC STAGE: pT4 N0 Mx SPECIMENS: A. STOMACH, TRANSVERSE COLON, RIGHT COLON, TERMINAL ILLEUM, PORTION OF SMALL INTEST B. GASTRIC SUTURE LINE CLINICAL HISTORY: Colon carcinoma GROSS DESCRIPTION: A. STOMACH, TRANSVERSE COLON, RIGHT COLON, TERMINAL ILEUM, PORTION OF SMALL INTESTINE Received fresh is a specimen consisting of segment of terminal ileum 3.0 x 3.0 cm, ascending colon with transverse colon 27 x 8 cm, a portion of distal stomach 7.0 x 4.5 cm and a segment of small bowel 6 x 4 cm with segment of omentum measuring 22 x 4 cm. The proximal ileal and distal colonic resection margins measure 3.0 cm and 7.0 cm in circumference. An ellipse of skin measuring 16 x 3.5 cm is also seen. Altogether, the specimen is en bloc resection of transverse colon carcinoma that invades the gastric wall the mucosa is grossly negative for tumor and associated with adjacent cavity and abscess formation and induration that involves subcutaneous adipose tissue and abdominal wall muscle, and penetrates the adhered segment of small intestine; the latter has mucosal defect corresponding to this process. The colonic tumor itself measures 4.5 x 4.5 cm located 5 cm from distal margin and the associated cavity 4.0 x 4.0 cm. Appendix could not be identified. Multiple lymph nodes are seen the largest measures 0.7 cm, they are grossly negative for tumor. Representative sections are submitted in: A1: proximal ileal margin A2: distal colonic margin A3: small bowel margin A4: gastric margin A5-A8: tumor A9: stomach with tumor A10: Small intestine lesion A11: skin with subcutaneous tissue A12: cavity with fat A13: random colonic mucosa A14-A23: possible lymph nodes A20 has bisected lymph node A24-A27: additional sections of the cavity A28-A33: lymph nodes B. GASTRIC SUTURE LINE Received in formalin is a 12.0 x 0.7 cm mucosa tissue with staples. Representative tissue is submitted in one cassette. 
 SPECIMENS: A. RIGHT OVARIAN CYST B. LEFT OVARIAN CYST C. LEFT COLON, SIGMOID, UPPER RECTUM D. DISTAL DONUT E. PROXIMAL DONUT F. SMALL BOWEL NODULE DIAGNOSIS: A. SOFT TISSUE, RIGHT OVARY, EXCISION: - SEROUS CYSTADENOMA. B. SOFT TISSUE, LEFT OVARY, EXCISION: - SEROUS CYSTADENOMA. C. RECTOSIGMOID COLON, SEGMENTAL RESECTION: - INVASIVE MODERATELY DIFFERENTIATED ADENOCARCINOMA WITH ULCERATION. - TUMOR SIZE 5 CM. - TUMOR INFILTRATES INTO THE SUBSEROSA. - MARGINS ARE NEGATIVE FOR CARCINOMA. - TUBULA R ADENOMA. - TWO OF SEVENTEEN LYMPH NODES POSITIVE FOR METASTATIC CARCINOMA 217. - SEE TEMPLATE. D. COLON, DISTAL DONUT, EXCISION: - COLONIC TYPE MUCOSA WITH NO PATHOLOGICAL ABNORMALITY. - NEGATIVE FOR CARCINOMA. E. COLON, PROXIMAL DONUT, EXCI SION: - COLONIC TYPE MUCOSA WITH NO PATHOLOGICAL ABNORMALITY. - NEGATIVE FOR CARCINOMA. F. SOFT TISSUE, SMALL BOWEL, EXCISION: - ENDOSALPINGIOSIS, NEGATIVE FOR MALIGNANCY. COLORECTAL CANCER TEMPLATE Specimen Type: Rectalrectosigmoid colon Lower anterior resection Tumor Site: Sigmoid Colon Tumor Configuration: Exophytic polypoid Tumor Size: 5 x 4 x 3 cm. Histologic Type: Adenocarcinoma Histologic Grade: G2: Moderately differentiated Extent of Invasion: Subserosa Margins: Margins uninvolved by invasive carcinoma Proximal, Distal, Radial VenousLymphatic Invasion: Present Perineural Invasion: Absent Additional Pathologic Findings: Adenoma Extent of Resection: R0: Complete resection with grossly and microscopically negativ e margins Lymph Nodes: Positive 217 Extranodal extension Implants: Absent Pathologic Stage: pT3a N1 MX SPECIMENS: A. RIGHT OVARIAN CYST B. LEFT OVARIAN CYST C. LEFT COLON, SIGMOID, UPPER RECTUM D. DISTAL DONUT E. PROXIMAL DONUT F. SMALL BOWEL NODULE GROSS DESCRIPTION: A. RIGHT OVARIAN CYST Received fresh labeled with patients name and right ovarian cyst is a 2.0 x 1.0 x 0.8 cm pink -tan cystic soft tissue fragment. A section is submitted for frozen section in FSA1 and the remainder of t he specimen is submitted in cassette A2. B. LEFT OVARIAN CYST Received fresh labeled with patients name and left ovarian cyst is a 1.5 x 0.4 x 0.3 cm pink -tan soft tissue fragment. The specimen is entirely submitted for frozen section in FSB1. C. LEFT COLON, SIGMOID, UPPER RECTUM Received fresh and labeled with patients name and left colon, sigmoid and upper rectum is a segment of colon and rectum, measuring 20 cm in length and 6 cm in open circumference. The serosa is smooth. There is a pink -tan fungating mass 4 x 5 x 3 cm, located 4 cm from the rectal margin and 9.5 cm from the colonic margin. It appears to invade into the muscularis propria. There is a 0.7 x 0.4 x 0.3 cm. polyp located 0.5 cm from the mass towards the proximal colonic margin. Sixteen possible lymph nodes are found ranging in size from 0.4 to 1.7 cm in greatest dimension. Representative sections are submitted as follows: C1: colonic margin C2: rectal margin C3-C5: mass and deep margin C6: mass with polyp C7: representative sections of normal appearing colonic mucosa C8: five possible lymph nodes C9: five possible lymph nodes C10: four possible lymph nodes C11-C13: one bisected lymph node each D. DISTAL DONUT Received in formalin and labeled with the patient name and distal donut is a ring of tan mucosa tissue measuring 0.9 cm in length with an outer circumference of 1.6 cm. It is bisected and there is a stapled surgical line present. The specimen is submitted in toto in cassette D1. E. PROXIMAL DON UT Received in formalin and labeled with the patient name and proximal donut is a ring of tan mucosa tissue with an outer circumference of 1.9 cm and measuring 0.8 cm in width. There are blue sutures present throughout the specimen. The specimen is submitted entirely in cassette E1. F. SMALL BOWEL NODULE Received fresh for frozen section evaluation labeled with the patients name and small bowel nodule excision is a fragment of tan soft tissue measuring 2.0 x 0.5 x 0.4 cm. The tissue is bisected to show a firm white nodule measuring 1 x 0.5 x 0.5 cm. The entire specimen is submitted in a cassette FSF1. ADDENDUM: ANALYSIS OF MISMATCH REPAIR PROTEIN EXPRESSION MLH1 Expression: Present MSH2 Expression: Present MSH6 Expression: Present PMS2 Expr ession: Present Expression of MLH1, MSH2, MSH6, and PMS2 in the tumor was evaluated by immunohistochemistry. Peritumoral lymphocytes and normal glands serve as internal positive controls expressing MLH1, MSH2, MSH6, and PMS2. Testing for Microsatellite Instability has been ordered. The results will be issued in a separate report. 
C2-a -3 n3p s 810 3 UUID :9E26ESFS -eFD1-4e45 -87F6 -3C1362FSDF84 a fLcaOd C g aloi! TCGA -DM-AIHA -0IA-PR Redacted IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII First TumorIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII III IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII Tumor Site:Ascending Colon Date of Cancer Sample Procurement: Histology:Adenocarcinoma  Description of other histology: Grade:Poorly Differentiated Mucinous:G No C YesYes FocalC Unknown Signet Ring Feature:  C- YesNo r YesFocalr Unknown Histologic Heterogeneity:f No 0 Yes C Unknown Host Response: None . Crohns like reactionC: None r Yes C Unknown Plasma cell rich stromaCNo C Yes r Unknown Growth Pattern:C Expansile C Invasive r Expansile re, Unknown and Invasive Inflammatory Bowel Diseaser No C Yes C,Unknown Angiolymphatic Invasion:C No r Yes C Unknown Mutator Phenotype:C No G Yes C Unknown Number of Slides1 Garland Necrosis present : C No C YesC Yes Focalr Unknown TIL Cells  HPF Pathologist Comment:Ideep, edge of tumor not Criteria Dianosis Discrepancy Primary Tumor Site Discrepancy HIAA Discrepancy Pr Reviewer InitiCese is icircle:s Dua Synchronouor Mali na.ry Hi: :
PATIENT HljST,O,R,Yi: 1III1!1 The patient IS,  PRE.-OP DIAGNOSIS Colon cancer P03T -OP DIAGNOSIS Same PROCEDURE Sigmoid cQlectomy. ADDENDA: Addendum f!luorescence in situ hybridization studies demonstrate that the adenocarcinoma has a ratio of Her-2JNeu gene to the C6tltromere chromosome 17 of 1.19 indicating ;a lack of amplification in the targeted region. Hef.2IMtu mplifleatlon !lay help in identifying those patients likely to experienr;e horter survival when considered together with othQr major risk factors. FINAL DIAGNOSIS: COLON, SIGMOID, SEGMENTAL COLECTOMY A. INVASiVe MODERATELY DIFFERENTIATED ADENOCARCINOMA 3.T CM INVADING MUSCULARIS PROPRIA WITH INTRAMURAL ABSCESS. B. SURGICAL MARGINS NEGATIVE FOR MALIGNANCY. c. THREE 3 LYMPH NODES NEGATiVe FOR MALIGNANCY seQ comment. D. NO ANGIOLYMPHATIC OR PERINEURAL INVASION IDENTIFIEO. E. PATHOLOGIC STAGE: pT2 NO MX, DUKES A. ACKGROUND COLON WITH CRYPT BRANCHING. COMMENT: Pericolonic adipose tissue was. xtenslvely sectioned and additional sections of peri eo Ionic adipose tissue were submitted but no additional lymph nodes were identified. SYNOPTIC. PRIMARY COLON AND REeT AL TUMORS A B c o Location:  1 Ileocecal Region :2 Ascending Colon 3 Transverse Colon Procedure: 1 1. Segmental Colectomy 2. Total COlectomy Size of Tumor maximum dimension: 3.7 em Type: 1 1 Adl,lnocarcinoma, NOS 2. Adl;nocarcinoma Arising in a background of :Irt adenoma. 3. Adenocarcinoma arising in i:::l background of inflammatory bowel disease 4. Adenosquamous carCinoma 5. Carcinoid Tumor Neuroendocrine Tumor 6. Mucinous Adenocarcinoma 7. Signet ring cell type Adenocarcinoma 8. Neuroendocnne Carcinoma E. Grade:? 4. Descending Colon 5. Sigmoid Colen 6. Rectum 3 Other 9 Squamous Cell Carcinoma 10, Undifferentiated C.;lrcinoma 11. Sarcoma 12, Smooth Muscle Tumor 13 Gastrointestinal stromal tumor 14. Lymphoma 15. Other 1. Well ,hHerentlated E:.:tenl of Infiltration: ;a 2. Moderate!y differentiated 3. P.o0rly differentiated F 1. limited to the mucosa 2. Into submucosa :3 InvolVing Inuscularis propria G. AnglolymphaUC Invasion. 2. 1. Yes 2. No H. Surgical Margins Involved: g I J K L 1 Ye 2. No Number of positive lymph nodes: Q Total number of lymph nodes exarnined a E.xtracJpsular spread  1 Yes 2 No. Associated Nndltions. !1.ojlji; 1 Ulcerative colitis 2 Grahns Disease. 3 History! presence of adenornatous polyJs, 4. Multiple polyposIs syndromes 5. Diverticulosis. M INMStage: T NQM2S, N. Dukes Stage: 1 1 A luTlited to mucosa and muscularls 2  through muscularis into subserosa 3 C affecting lymph nOdes 4 0 metastatic O. AtleCOlier Stage: g 1 A rnucosa but not into muscular!!; propria 4. Infiltrating through musculariS propria into serosal adipose tissue S Involving adJacent orgons! pelvic wall 2 81 muscul8.ris propria but.!l2! through to subserosa 1 92 through musculariS propria into subserosa! fibroadiposp. tissue, LN negaflve 4 C1 lImited to muscularis propria but not through subserosa, LN positive C2 invades serosal adipose tissue. LN positive 6 D metastatic disease 
ESample ID  Diagnosis: Right hemicolectomy specimen with tumor-free oral and aboral resection margins, with two tubular colon mucosal adenomas with up to moderate dysplasia synonym: low-grade intra-epithelial neoplasia and under inclusion of an ulcerated , poorly differentiated, partially mucinous adenocarcinoma in the caecum and ascending colon ,with penetration of all layers of t .-he-wall, penetration of the peritoneum and with two regional lymph node metastases G3, pT4 L I VO pN l 224. 0-3 , wt.Gr ,no S t i u 413 azG W,5e.la Cl8  3 3k? UUID:A207E6D8-FF21-49FD -A84B-D941C8SA8631 TOGA- AAIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIEd IIIIiIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 1111111111111111111 III IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII
Diagnosis: This is a moderately differentiated invasive adenocarcinoma of the colon with focal penetration of the tunica muscularis and infiltration of the pericolic fatty tissue. The surface of the tumor shows necroses, in the periphery of the tumor is a moderate lymphocytic inflammatory reaction. The oral resection margin shows a normal, tumor -free ileum wall; the aboral resection margin shows a tumor -free colon wall. The area of the central vascular ligature is tumor -free. The polyps described are tubulovillous adenomas, in some cases with slight dysplasia. The omentum shows the metastasis of a poorly differentiated mucinous adenocarcinoma. The differentiation of this adenocarcinoma differs markedly from the adenocarcinoma in the right flexure but see I II. The 15 lymph nodes are tumor -free and show reactive hyperplasia. Tumor classification: ICDO -DA-M 81403 pT3, pN0, R0  G2. 
fl.. SPECIMEN DESIGNATED SIGMOID COLON, PARTIAL COLECTOMY  17 cm: ADENOCARCINOMA, low grade, modera tely differentiated 4.9 em in greatest dimension . Tumor forms a polypoid mass and has an infiltrating border. Tumor invades through muscularis propria. Proximal, distal, and radial resectio n margins are negative for tumor. Invasive tumor is 5.0 em from proximal resection margin, 5.1 em from distal resection margin, and 2.5 ern from radial resection margin . mild. Lymphovascular invasion is not identified. Extramural venous invasion is not identified. Perineural invasion is not identified . Peri tumoral lymphoid response including Crohn?s -lH;e infiltrate is Residual adenoma is absent. Regional lymph nodes positive :total; 2:13 see also part B. AJCC Classification 6th edition: T3 Nl MX. B. SPECIMEN DESIGNATED ADDITIONAL PROXIMAL MARGIN: Segment of colon, negativ e for tumor. Two lymph nodes, negative for tumor 0:2. C. SPECIMEN DESIGNATED DIS1AL DONUT : Segment of colon, negative for tumor. D. SPECIMEN DESIGNATED PROXIMAL DONUT: Segment of colon, negative for tumor. CLINICAL DATA: History : Not provided . Operation: Sigmoid resection. Operative Findings : Not provided . Clinical Diagnosis : Not provided. TISSUE SUBMITTED : A. sigmoid -staple side is proximal to FS open  return B. additional proximal margin C. distal donut D. proximal donut GROSS DESCRIPTION: The specimen is received fresh, in four parts, labeled with the patients name and medica l record number . Part A, il. Sigmoid, staple side is proximal, open and return, consists of one sigmoid colectomy 17,0 cm in length x 6,6 em in diOimete r with 01 proximal stapled resection margin 6.6 em, inked black and a distal open resection margin 2.0 em, inked blue, with attached mesentery 17.5 x 6.0 em. The antimesenteric side is inked red where the bowel is opened by the prosector. The mucosal surface demonstrates one tanpink fungating polypoid mass 4.9 x 4 . 5 x 1.6 em present 5.0 cm from the proxima l resection margin, 5.1 em from the distal stapled resection margin , and 2.5 em from the radial resection margin inked orange. The tumor grossly invades into the muscularis, but not the pericolonic fat. There is a whitetan soft nodule ? necrotic lymph node metastasis 1.5 x 0.9 x 1.5 em which is present in the mesentery adjacent and 2.0 em from the main mass and 1.1 em from the radial margin. The remainder of the mucosa is tanbrown and unrema rkable. Twelve candidate lymph nodes are identified, the largest measuring 0.7 cm in greatest dimension . Gross photographs are taken. Micro Micro Micro Micro Micro Micro Micro Micro Micro AI: Proximal and distal stapled resection margins, 2 frags,1IIII A2: Tumor, 2 frags, I11III A3 through A4: Tumor with deepest extent of invasion rag each, AS through A6: Tumor to normal mucosa, 1 frag each, ...... A7 through AS: Mesenteric 1 frag each,  A9: Radial margin, 1 frag, A10: Normal mucosa, 1 trag, All through A19: Candida te A20 through A22: nodes, multi fra ch, Iss. sections of fat,  Part B, 2. Additional proximal margin , consists of one unoriented segment of colon 1.1 em in length x 2.5 em in diameter with two stapled resection margins 4.5 em inked black, 4.1 cm inked blue with attached mesentery 2.1 x 6.0 cm. No lesions are grossly identified. Two candidate lymph nodes are identified, the largest measuring 0.5 cm in greatest dimension . Micro Micro Micro 81 through B2: Proximal margin, ful th sections, 83: Candidate lymph nodes, 3 frags, B4 through B5: Additional adipose tissue, multi frags 2 frags Part C, 3. Distal donut, consists of one segment of colon 0.8 em in length x 2.5 crn in diameter. No lesions are grossly identified. Micro C1 through C2: Distal donut, 2 to 3 frags Part 0, 14. Proximal donut. consists of one metal disc 2. B x 2. S x 0.5 em with an attached stem4.4 cm in length x 0.7 cm in diameter  with a segment of colon 0.5 em in length x 1.2 cm in diameter . No lesions are grossly identified. The metal object is submitted for. gross examination only. Micro 01: Proximal donut, 1 frag, By hisher signature below, the senior physician cer.tifies that heshe personally conducted a mi.croscopic examination gross only exam if so stated of the described specimens and rendered or confirmed the diagnosis es related thereto . 
SPECIMEN A. Sigmoid colon B. Right abdominal tlall tumor c. Omentum CLINICAL NOTES PRE-OP DIAGNOSIS: Left colon cancer. GROSS DESCRIPTION TCGA -A6-2674 A. Received fresh, labeled sigmoid colon, is a previously unopened, 31 em. segment of distal colon1 surfaced by smooth and glistening tan-pink serosa, with a copious amount of attached mesocolon. The undesignated margins measure 3.8 and 10.2 em. in circumference, On opening, there is a circumferential, well-circumscribed, 5 x 4.5 em., partially necrotic tan-white tumor mass, located 10 em. form the smaller circumference margin. A portion of the tumor and a portion of normal mucosa are submitted for tissue procurement1 as requested. On sectioning, the tumor has a maximal thickness of 2 em., grossly extending through the muscularis to within 0.8 em. of the inked free radial serosal surface, The remaining mucosa is unremarkable, glistening tan-pink, with regular folds, and the wall averages 0.5 em. in thickness. Multiple, slightly rubbery tan-white to tan-pink tissues, in keeping with lymph nodes, measuring up to 4.8 ern. in greatest dimension, are recovered from the attached mesocolon. Representative sections are submitted in fourteen blocks, as labeled. RS-14 BLOCK SUMMARY: 1 -Undesignated margins smaller circumference margin inked blue; 2,3-tumor full thickness to inked free radial serosal surface; 4 -central tumor; 5 -tumor to normal mucosa; 6 - random normal mucosa; 7-eight whole lymph nodes; 8,9-six whole lymph nodes per cassette; 10-12 -one representative section from each of three grossly positive nodes one node represented per cassette; 13,14 -two representative sections from largestr grossly GROSS DESCRIPTION positive lymph node. B. Received in formalin labeled 11right abdominal wall tumor is a 1.5 x 0.7 x 0.5 em yellow lobular fatty tissue fragment which shows a 0.2 em white-tan rubbery nodule on the surface. The specimen is bisected and entirely submitted in one cassette. AS-1. C. Received in formalin1 labeled omentum are multiple pieces of fat described below. The specimen is sectioned to show a yellow lobular fatty cut surface grossly consistent v1ith omentum. The specimen shows a 1.5 x 0.7 x 0.1 em. focus of white-tan rubbery tissue Hhich may be grossly consistent -rith fibrinous exudate or possible adhesion tissue. The specimen is also further palpated to identify a 2.2 em. white-pink-tan rubbery nodule. No other discrete gross lesions are identified. Representative sections of the specimen are submitted in eight cassettes. RS-8 -MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION A-C. Microscopic examination reveals: Histologic type: Invasive adenocarcinorna1 Nucinous. Histologic grade: Poorly differentiated. Primary tumor pT: Tumor invades through the muscularis propria into the pericolonic fat pT3. Proximal margin: Negative for tumor. Distal margin: Negative for tumor. Circumferential radial margin: Negative for tumor. Distance of tumor from closest margin: 10 ern. from one of the undesignated mucosal resection margins Vascular invasion: Lymphatic space invasion present. Slide AS. Regional lymph nodes pN : Metastatic adenocarcinoma is present in 7 of 20 lymph nodes pN2. The largest metastasis measures 4.8 em. MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION Non-lymph node pericolonic tumor: Present. Distant metastasis pM : Netastatic tumor is present in the B specimen in the right abdominal wall Hith an 0.2 ern. nodule within that. Metastatic tumor is also present in the omentum with a 2.2 em. nodule within the fat. pMl. Other findings: Diverticulosis. 5xl1 3X21 3260F, DIAGNOSIS A. Colon1 sigmoid, segmental resection: Invasive mucinous adenocarcinoma1 poorly differentiated. Invasive in to pericolonic fat pT3. Metastatic adenocarcinoma present in 7 of 20 pericolonic lymph nodes pN2. Extranodal tumor present. The resection margins are negative. Diverticulosis also present. B. Right abdominal wall tumor 1 biopsy: Metastatic mucinous adenocarcinoma. c. Omentum1 biopsy: Metastatic mucinous adenocarcinoma. 
 SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT SPECIMEN Right hemicolectomy with en block resection of abdominal wall muscle and fascia. CLINICAL NOTES PRE- OP DIAGNOSIS: Tumor of cecum. POST- OP DIAGNOSIS: Same. GROSS DESCRIPTION Received fresh for tissue procurement labeled right hemicolectomy with en bloc is a previously unopened, 24 cm segment of proximal right colon with attached 17 cm of distal ileum surfaced by smooth to scabrous tan- pink serosa with a moderate amount of attached mesocolon, mesentery and unremarkable omentum. An irregular 5 x 5 x 2.5 cm fragment of red- brown skeletal muscle is present in the vicinity of the cecal pouch. The cauterized surface of the portion of abdominal wall is inked blue representing true surgical resection margin in that area. A scant amount of adherent omentum and retracted serosal surface are also present in the vicinity of the attached portion of abdominal wall subsequently inked orange and representing the free radial serosal surface. An unremarkable 7.2 cm in length, 0.9 cm in diameter appendix is present. The proximal and distal margins measure 4 and 8 cm in circumference respectively. On opening, there is a nearly circumferential rubbery tan- white tumor mass at the ileocecal valve measuring 11.0 x 5.7 cm. On sectioning, the tumor has a maximal thickness of 2.8 cm, grossly extending into the muscularis to within 0.5 cm of the inked cauterized resection margin abdominal wall see paired contiguous sections blocks 23 and 45 and within 0.6 cm of the inked free radial serosal surface see bisected contiguous sections block 6 and 7. The ileal and remaining colonic mucosa is unremarkable glistening tan- pink with regular folds and the walls average 0.4 cm in thickness. Two palpable rubbery tan- pink-red apical lymph nodes averaging 1.3 cm in greatest dimension are recovered from the attached mesocolon. Numerous additional rubbery pale tan lymph nodes, 2.8 cm in greatest dimension, are recovered from the remainder of the mesocolon and mesentery. A portion of tumor and a portion of normal mucosa are submitted for tissue procurement as requeste presentative sections are submitted in 25 blocks as labeled. - BLOCK SUMMARY: 1 - Pro ma and distal margins; 23, 45 - tumor to inked cauterized abdominal wall margin and serosal surface with points of continuity inked red and green respectively; 67 - bisected sections, tumor full thickness to inked free radial serosal surface, point of continuity inked black; 8 - tumor to proximal mucosaat ICV; 910 - additional bisected section of tumor to abdominal wall point of continuity inked violet; 11 - random ileum and colon; 12 - appendix; 1314 - bisected apical lymph node one bisected node per cassette; 1516 - six whole lymph nodes per cassette; 17- 21 - one bisected lymph node per cassette; 2223 - one bisected lymph node 12 p cassette; 2425 - one bisected lymph node 12 per cassette. MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION Histologic type: Adenocarcinoma, NOS. Histologic grade: Moderately- differentiated. Primary tumor pT: Tumor invades through the muscularis propria into the serosal fat pT3. Proximal margin: Negative. Distal margin: Negative. Circumferential radial margin: Negative. Vascular invasion: Negative. Regional lymph nodes pN: 19 mesenteric lymph nodes are negative for metastatic carcinoma 019 pN0. Non- lymph node pericolonic tumor: Absent. Distant metastasis pM: pMx. Other findings: There is a large area of pericolonic abscess formation and inflammatory activity present next to the tumor which has produced adhesion of the abdominal wall to the colon. No direct invasion by tumor is present at that site. Appendix without significant histopathologic finding. 5 DIAGNOSIS Terminal ileum, appendix, right colon and abdominal wall, en bloc resection: Invasive moderately- differentiated colonic adenocarcinoma extending through the wall of the cecum into the serosal fat. There are areas of abscess formation and inflammation between the abdominal wall and cecum producing adhesion of the abdominal wall to the colon. No direct invasion of this area by tumor is present. The proximal, distal and radial margins of resection are free of tumor. Nineteen mesenteric lymph nodes negative for metastatic carcinoma 019. Appendix without significant histopathologic finding. --- End Of Report --- 
This is an unequivocal finding in the sense of an adenocarcinoma of the colon with extensive necrosis and poor differentiation thus corresponding to G3 with penetration of all parietal layers and vascular infiltration thus corresponding to pT3, L1, V1 with free resection margins in the mucosal region with a regular mucosa, submucosa and muscularis and free resection margins in the mesenchymal region and three lymph node metastases corresponding to pN1. In addition, there were diverticular formations. Tumor classification: ICDO -DA-M G 3 pT3 L1, V1 pN1 3 of 13 lymph nodes 
Diagnosis: 1. and 3.: resected section of colon descending and sigmoid colon with tumor -free oral and aboral resection margins and including an ulcerated, moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma with infiltration of the lamina muscularis propria, with s everal regional lymph node metastases G2, pT2 L1 V0 R0 pN2a 531 and with distinctive, florid, perifocal inflammation 3., encroaching on the peritoneum of the abdominal wall 1..
 page 1  1 page 1  1 page 1  1 page 1  1 page 1  1 page 1  1 Department of Cancer Pathology Department of Cancer Pathology Department of Cancer Pathology Department of Cancer Pathology Department of Cancer Pathology Department of Cancer Pathology Department of Cancer Pathology Department of Cancer Pathology Department of Cancer Pathology Department of Cancer Pathology Department of Cancer Pathology Department of Cancer Pathology copy No. 2 Date: Date: Date: Date: ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon Internal invoice No.Internal invoice No.Internal invoice No.Internal invoice No. Value of diagnosQc procedureValue of diagnosQc procedureValue of diagnosQc procedureValue of diagnosQc procedureValue of diagnosQc procedureValue of diagnosQc procedureValue of diagnosQc procedure ExaminaFon No.: ExaminaFon No.: PaQent: XXX PaQent: XXX Age: Gender: Gender: Gender: Gender: Gender: Gender: Material: ParFal organ resecFon  leR half of the colon along with cancer inltrated rst loop of the small intesFne Material: ParFal organ resecFon  leR half of the colon along with cancer inltrated rst loop of the small intesFne Material: ParFal organ resecFon  leR half of the colon along with cancer inltrated rst loop of the small intesFne Material: ParFal organ resecFon  leR half of the colon along with cancer inltrated rst loop of the small intesFne Material: ParFal organ resecFon  leR half of the colon along with cancer inltrated rst loop of the small intesFne Material: ParFal organ resecFon  leR half of the colon along with cancer inltrated rst loop of the small intesFne Material: ParFal organ resecFon  leR half of the colon along with cancer inltrated rst loop of the small intesFne Material: ParFal organ resecFon  leR half of the colon along with cancer inltrated rst loop of the small intesFne Material: ParFal organ resecFon  leR half of the colon along with cancer inltrated rst loop of the small intesFne Material: ParFal organ resecFon  leR half of the colon along with cancer inltrated rst loop of the small intesFne Material: ParFal organ resecFon  leR half of the colon along with cancer inltrated rst loop of the small intesFne Material: ParFal organ resecFon  leR half of the colon along with cancer inltrated rst loop of the small intesFne Material: ParFal organ resecFon  leR half of the colon along with cancer inltrated rst loop of the small intesFne Unit in charge: Unit in charge: Unit in charge: Unit in charge: Unit in charge: Unit in charge: Unit in charge: Unit in charge: Unit in charge: Unit in charge: Unit in charge: Unit in charge: Unit in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Material collected on: Material collected on: Material collected on: Material received on: Material received on: Material received on: Material received on: Material received on: Material received on: Expected Qme of examinaQon: Expected Qme of examinaQon: Expected Qme of examinaQon: Expected Qme of examinaQon: Expected Qme of examinaQon: Expected Qme of examinaQon: Expected Qme of examinaQon: Expected Qme of examinaQon: Expected Qme of examinaQon: Expected Qme of examinaQon: Expected Qme of examinaQon: Expected Qme of examinaQon: Expected Qme of examinaQon: Clinical diagnosis: leR half of the colon along with cancer inltrated rst loop of the small intesFne Clinical diagnosis: leR half of the colon along with cancer inltrated rst loop of the small intesFne Clinical diagnosis: leR half of the colon along with cancer inltrated rst loop of the small intesFne Clinical diagnosis: leR half of the colon along with cancer inltrated rst loop of the small intesFne Clinical diagnosis: leR half of the colon along with cancer inltrated rst loop of the small intesFne Clinical diagnosis: leR half of the colon along with cancer inltrated rst loop of the small intesFne Clinical diagnosis: leR half of the colon along with cancer inltrated rst loop of the small intesFne Clinical diagnosis: leR half of the colon along with cancer inltrated rst loop of the small intesFne Clinical diagnosis: leR half of the colon along with cancer inltrated rst loop of the small intesFne Clinical diagnosis: leR half of the colon along with cancer inltrated rst loop of the small intesFne Clinical diagnosis: leR half of the colon along with cancer inltrated rst loop of the small intesFne Clinical diagnosis: leR half of the colon along with cancer inltrated rst loop of the small intesFne Clinical diagnosis: leR half of the colon along with cancer inltrated rst loop of the small intesFne  ExaminaQon performed on: ExaminaQon performed on: ExaminaQon performed on: ExaminaQon performed on: ExaminaQon performed on: ExaminaQon performed on: ExaminaQon performed on: ExaminaQon performed on: ExaminaQon performed on: ExaminaQon performed on: Macroscopic descripQon : A 25 cm length of the large intesFne with periintesFnal fat Fssue sized 28 x 6.8 x 2.5 cm, and part of the omentum sized 25 x 10 x 0.5cm. AddiFonally an 8 cm segment of the small intesFne consolidated with the wall of the large intesFne at the site of neoplasFc proliferaFon. Ulcerous tumour sized 7 x 5 cm found in the mucosa. The lesion surrounds 100 of the intesFne circumference narrowing its lumen, is located 6 cm from the proximal incision line, and 12 cm from the distal incision line. The lesion inltrates macroscopically through the whole thickness of the large intesFne wall, periintesFnal fat Fssue and the small intesFne wall at the site of the consolidaFon. Neighbouring lymph nodes are macroscopically metastaFc.Macroscopic descripQon : A 25 cm length of the large intesFne with periintesFnal fat Fssue sized 28 x 6.8 x 2.5 cm, and part of the omentum sized 25 x 10 x 0.5cm. AddiFonally an 8 cm segment of the small intesFne consolidated with the wall of the large intesFne at the site of neoplasFc proliferaFon. Ulcerous tumour sized 7 x 5 cm found in the mucosa. The lesion surrounds 100 of the intesFne circumference narrowing its lumen, is located 6 cm from the proximal incision line, and 12 cm from the distal incision line. The lesion inltrates macroscopically through the whole thickness of the large intesFne wall, periintesFnal fat Fssue and the small intesFne wall at the site of the consolidaFon. Neighbouring lymph nodes are macroscopically metastaFc.Macroscopic descripQon : A 25 cm length of the large intesFne with periintesFnal fat Fssue sized 28 x 6.8 x 2.5 cm, and part of the omentum sized 25 x 10 x 0.5cm. AddiFonally an 8 cm segment of the small intesFne consolidated with the wall of the large intesFne at the site of neoplasFc proliferaFon. Ulcerous tumour sized 7 x 5 cm found in the mucosa. The lesion surrounds 100 of the intesFne circumference narrowing its lumen, is located 6 cm from the proximal incision line, and 12 cm from the distal incision line. The lesion inltrates macroscopically through the whole thickness of the large intesFne wall, periintesFnal fat Fssue and the small intesFne wall at the site of the consolidaFon. Neighbouring lymph nodes are macroscopically metastaFc.Macroscopic descripQon : A 25 cm length of the large intesFne with periintesFnal fat Fssue sized 28 x 6.8 x 2.5 cm, and part of the omentum sized 25 x 10 x 0.5cm. AddiFonally an 8 cm segment of the small intesFne consolidated with the wall of the large intesFne at the site of neoplasFc proliferaFon. Ulcerous tumour sized 7 x 5 cm found in the mucosa. The lesion surrounds 100 of the intesFne circumference narrowing its lumen, is located 6 cm from the proximal incision line, and 12 cm from the distal incision line. The lesion inltrates macroscopically through the whole thickness of the large intesFne wall, periintesFnal fat Fssue and the small intesFne wall at the site of the consolidaFon. Neighbouring lymph nodes are macroscopically metastaFc.Macroscopic descripQon : A 25 cm length of the large intesFne with periintesFnal fat Fssue sized 28 x 6.8 x 2.5 cm, and part of the omentum sized 25 x 10 x 0.5cm. AddiFonally an 8 cm segment of the small intesFne consolidated with the wall of the large intesFne at the site of neoplasFc proliferaFon. Ulcerous tumour sized 7 x 5 cm found in the mucosa. The lesion surrounds 100 of the intesFne circumference narrowing its lumen, is located 6 cm from the proximal incision line, and 12 cm from the distal incision line. The lesion inltrates macroscopically through the whole thickness of the large intesFne wall, periintesFnal fat Fssue and the small intesFne wall at the site of the consolidaFon. Neighbouring lymph nodes are macroscopically metastaFc.Macroscopic descripQon : A 25 cm length of the large intesFne with periintesFnal fat Fssue sized 28 x 6.8 x 2.5 cm, and part of the omentum sized 25 x 10 x 0.5cm. AddiFonally an 8 cm segment of the small intesFne consolidated with the wall of the large intesFne at the site of neoplasFc proliferaFon. Ulcerous tumour sized 7 x 5 cm found in the mucosa. The lesion surrounds 100 of the intesFne circumference narrowing its lumen, is located 6 cm from the proximal incision line, and 12 cm from the distal incision line. The lesion inltrates macroscopically through the whole thickness of the large intesFne wall, periintesFnal fat Fssue and the small intesFne wall at the site of the consolidaFon. Neighbouring lymph nodes are macroscopically metastaFc.Macroscopic descripQon : A 25 cm length of the large intesFne with periintesFnal fat Fssue sized 28 x 6.8 x 2.5 cm, and part of the omentum sized 25 x 10 x 0.5cm. AddiFonally an 8 cm segment of the small intesFne consolidated with the wall of the large intesFne at the site of neoplasFc proliferaFon. Ulcerous tumour sized 7 x 5 cm found in the mucosa. The lesion surrounds 100 of the intesFne circumference narrowing its lumen, is located 6 cm from the proximal incision line, and 12 cm from the distal incision line. The lesion inltrates macroscopically through the whole thickness of the large intesFne wall, periintesFnal fat Fssue and the small intesFne wall at the site of the consolidaFon. Neighbouring lymph nodes are macroscopically metastaFc.Macroscopic descripQon : A 25 cm length of the large intesFne with periintesFnal fat Fssue sized 28 x 6.8 x 2.5 cm, and part of the omentum sized 25 x 10 x 0.5cm. AddiFonally an 8 cm segment of the small intesFne consolidated with the wall of the large intesFne at the site of neoplasFc proliferaFon. Ulcerous tumour sized 7 x 5 cm found in the mucosa. The lesion surrounds 100 of the intesFne circumference narrowing its lumen, is located 6 cm from the proximal incision line, and 12 cm from the distal incision line. The lesion inltrates macroscopically through the whole thickness of the large intesFne wall, periintesFnal fat Fssue and the small intesFne wall at the site of the consolidaFon. Neighbouring lymph nodes are macroscopically metastaFc.Macroscopic descripQon : A 25 cm length of the large intesFne with periintesFnal fat Fssue sized 28 x 6.8 x 2.5 cm, and part of the omentum sized 25 x 10 x 0.5cm. AddiFonally an 8 cm segment of the small intesFne consolidated with the wall of the large intesFne at the site of neoplasFc proliferaFon. Ulcerous tumour sized 7 x 5 cm found in the mucosa. The lesion surrounds 100 of the intesFne circumference narrowing its lumen, is located 6 cm from the proximal incision line, and 12 cm from the distal incision line. The lesion inltrates macroscopically through the whole thickness of the large intesFne wall, periintesFnal fat Fssue and the small intesFne wall at the site of the consolidaFon. Neighbouring lymph nodes are macroscopically metastaFc.Macroscopic descripQon : A 25 cm length of the large intesFne with periintesFnal fat Fssue sized 28 x 6.8 x 2.5 cm, and part of the omentum sized 25 x 10 x 0.5cm. AddiFonally an 8 cm segment of the small intesFne consolidated with the wall of the large intesFne at the site of neoplasFc proliferaFon. Ulcerous tumour sized 7 x 5 cm found in the mucosa. The lesion surrounds 100 of the intesFne circumference narrowing its lumen, is located 6 cm from the proximal incision line, and 12 cm from the distal incision line. The lesion inltrates macroscopically through the whole thickness of the large intesFne wall, periintesFnal fat Fssue and the small intesFne wall at the site of the consolidaFon. Neighbouring lymph nodes are macroscopically metastaFc.Macroscopic descripQon : A 25 cm length of the large intesFne with periintesFnal fat Fssue sized 28 x 6.8 x 2.5 cm, and part of the omentum sized 25 x 10 x 0.5cm. AddiFonally an 8 cm segment of the small intesFne consolidated with the wall of the large intesFne at the site of neoplasFc proliferaFon. Ulcerous tumour sized 7 x 5 cm found in the mucosa. The lesion surrounds 100 of the intesFne circumference narrowing its lumen, is located 6 cm from the proximal incision line, and 12 cm from the distal incision line. The lesion inltrates macroscopically through the whole thickness of the large intesFne wall, periintesFnal fat Fssue and the small intesFne wall at the site of the consolidaFon. Neighbouring lymph nodes are macroscopically metastaFc.Macroscopic descripQon : A 25 cm length of the large intesFne with periintesFnal fat Fssue sized 28 x 6.8 x 2.5 cm, and part of the omentum sized 25 x 10 x 0.5cm. AddiFonally an 8 cm segment of the small intesFne consolidated with the wall of the large intesFne at the site of neoplasFc proliferaFon. Ulcerous tumour sized 7 x 5 cm found in the mucosa. The lesion surrounds 100 of the intesFne circumference narrowing its lumen, is located 6 cm from the proximal incision line, and 12 cm from the distal incision line. The lesion inltrates macroscopically through the whole thickness of the large intesFne wall, periintesFnal fat Fssue and the small intesFne wall at the site of the consolidaFon. Neighbouring lymph nodes are macroscopically metastaFc.Macroscopic descripQon : A 25 cm length of the large intesFne with periintesFnal fat Fssue sized 28 x 6.8 x 2.5 cm, and part of the omentum sized 25 x 10 x 0.5cm. AddiFonally an 8 cm segment of the small intesFne consolidated with the wall of the large intesFne at the site of neoplasFc proliferaFon. Ulcerous tumour sized 7 x 5 cm found in the mucosa. The lesion surrounds 100 of the intesFne circumference narrowing its lumen, is located 6 cm from the proximal incision line, and 12 cm from the distal incision line. The lesion inltrates macroscopically through the whole thickness of the large intesFne wall, periintesFnal fat Fssue and the small intesFne wall at the site of the consolidaFon. Neighbouring lymph nodes are macroscopically metastaFc. Microscopic descripQon : Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare G2. InltraFo carcinomatosa profunda tunicae muscularis priopriae et serosae coli et parieFs ilei et telae adiposae mesenterii pericolicae. IntesFne ends clear of neoplasFc lesions. Metastases carcinomatosae in lymphonodis NO IVXIV.InfdtraFo carcinomatosa capsulae lymphonodorum et telae adiposae perinodalis.Emboliae carcinomatosae.Microscopic descripQon : Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare G2. InltraFo carcinomatosa profunda tunicae muscularis priopriae et serosae coli et parieFs ilei et telae adiposae mesenterii pericolicae. IntesFne ends clear of neoplasFc lesions. Metastases carcinomatosae in lymphonodis NO IVXIV.InfdtraFo carcinomatosa capsulae lymphonodorum et telae adiposae perinodalis.Emboliae carcinomatosae.Microscopic descripQon : Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare G2. InltraFo carcinomatosa profunda tunicae muscularis priopriae et serosae coli et parieFs ilei et telae adiposae mesenterii pericolicae. IntesFne ends clear of neoplasFc lesions. Metastases carcinomatosae in lymphonodis NO IVXIV.InfdtraFo carcinomatosa capsulae lymphonodorum et telae adiposae perinodalis.Emboliae carcinomatosae.Microscopic descripQon : Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare G2. InltraFo carcinomatosa profunda tunicae muscularis priopriae et serosae coli et parieFs ilei et telae adiposae mesenterii pericolicae. IntesFne ends clear of neoplasFc lesions. Metastases carcinomatosae in lymphonodis NO IVXIV.InfdtraFo carcinomatosa capsulae lymphonodorum et telae adiposae perinodalis.Emboliae carcinomatosae.Microscopic descripQon : Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare G2. InltraFo carcinomatosa profunda tunicae muscularis priopriae et serosae coli et parieFs ilei et telae adiposae mesenterii pericolicae. IntesFne ends clear of neoplasFc lesions. Metastases carcinomatosae in lymphonodis NO IVXIV.InfdtraFo carcinomatosa capsulae lymphonodorum et telae adiposae perinodalis.Emboliae carcinomatosae.Microscopic descripQon : Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare G2. InltraFo carcinomatosa profunda tunicae muscularis priopriae et serosae coli et parieFs ilei et telae adiposae mesenterii pericolicae. IntesFne ends clear of neoplasFc lesions. Metastases carcinomatosae in lymphonodis NO IVXIV.InfdtraFo carcinomatosa capsulae lymphonodorum et telae adiposae perinodalis.Emboliae carcinomatosae.Microscopic descripQon : Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare G2. InltraFo carcinomatosa profunda tunicae muscularis priopriae et serosae coli et parieFs ilei et telae adiposae mesenterii pericolicae. IntesFne ends clear of neoplasFc lesions. Metastases carcinomatosae in lymphonodis NO IVXIV.InfdtraFo carcinomatosa capsulae lymphonodorum et telae adiposae perinodalis.Emboliae carcinomatosae.Microscopic descripQon : Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare G2. InltraFo carcinomatosa profunda tunicae muscularis priopriae et serosae coli et parieFs ilei et telae adiposae mesenterii pericolicae. IntesFne ends clear of neoplasFc lesions. Metastases carcinomatosae in lymphonodis NO IVXIV.InfdtraFo carcinomatosa capsulae lymphonodorum et telae adiposae perinodalis.Emboliae carcinomatosae.Microscopic descripQon : Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare G2. InltraFo carcinomatosa profunda tunicae muscularis priopriae et serosae coli et parieFs ilei et telae adiposae mesenterii pericolicae. IntesFne ends clear of neoplasFc lesions. Metastases carcinomatosae in lymphonodis NO IVXIV.InfdtraFo carcinomatosa capsulae lymphonodorum et telae adiposae perinodalis.Emboliae carcinomatosae.Microscopic descripQon : Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare G2. InltraFo carcinomatosa profunda tunicae muscularis priopriae et serosae coli et parieFs ilei et telae adiposae mesenterii pericolicae. IntesFne ends clear of neoplasFc lesions. Metastases carcinomatosae in lymphonodis NO IVXIV.InfdtraFo carcinomatosa capsulae lymphonodorum et telae adiposae perinodalis.Emboliae carcinomatosae.Microscopic descripQon : Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare G2. InltraFo carcinomatosa profunda tunicae muscularis priopriae et serosae coli et parieFs ilei et telae adiposae mesenterii pericolicae. IntesFne ends clear of neoplasFc lesions. Metastases carcinomatosae in lymphonodis NO IVXIV.InfdtraFo carcinomatosa capsulae lymphonodorum et telae adiposae perinodalis.Emboliae carcinomatosae.Microscopic descripQon : Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare G2. InltraFo carcinomatosa profunda tunicae muscularis priopriae et serosae coli et parieFs ilei et telae adiposae mesenterii pericolicae. IntesFne ends clear of neoplasFc lesions. Metastases carcinomatosae in lymphonodis NO IVXIV.InfdtraFo carcinomatosa capsulae lymphonodorum et telae adiposae perinodalis.Emboliae carcinomatosae.Microscopic descripQon : Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare G2. InltraFo carcinomatosa profunda tunicae muscularis priopriae et serosae coli et parieFs ilei et telae adiposae mesenterii pericolicae. IntesFne ends clear of neoplasFc lesions. Metastases carcinomatosae in lymphonodis NO IVXIV.InfdtraFo carcinomatosa capsulae lymphonodorum et telae adiposae perinodalis.Emboliae carcinomatosae. Histopathological diagnosis: Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare coli. Tubulopapillar adenocarcinoma of the colon. Metastases carcinomatosae in lymphonodis. Cancer metastases in the lymph nodes. No IVXIV.G2, Dukes C, Astler - Coller C2, pT4b, pN2.Histopathological diagnosis: Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare coli. Tubulopapillar adenocarcinoma of the colon. Metastases carcinomatosae in lymphonodis. Cancer metastases in the lymph nodes. No IVXIV.G2, Dukes C, Astler - Coller C2, pT4b, pN2.Histopathological diagnosis: Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare coli. Tubulopapillar adenocarcinoma of the colon. Metastases carcinomatosae in lymphonodis. Cancer metastases in the lymph nodes. No IVXIV.G2, Dukes C, Astler - Coller C2, pT4b, pN2.Histopathological diagnosis: Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare coli. Tubulopapillar adenocarcinoma of the colon. Metastases carcinomatosae in lymphonodis. Cancer metastases in the lymph nodes. No IVXIV.G2, Dukes C, Astler - Coller C2, pT4b, pN2.Histopathological diagnosis: Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare coli. Tubulopapillar adenocarcinoma of the colon. Metastases carcinomatosae in lymphonodis. Cancer metastases in the lymph nodes. No IVXIV.G2, Dukes C, Astler - Coller C2, pT4b, pN2.Histopathological diagnosis: Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare coli. Tubulopapillar adenocarcinoma of the colon. Metastases carcinomatosae in lymphonodis. Cancer metastases in the lymph nodes. No IVXIV.G2, Dukes C, Astler - Coller C2, pT4b, pN2.Histopathological diagnosis: Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare coli. Tubulopapillar adenocarcinoma of the colon. Metastases carcinomatosae in lymphonodis. Cancer metastases in the lymph nodes. No IVXIV.G2, Dukes C, Astler - Coller C2, pT4b, pN2.Histopathological diagnosis: Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare coli. Tubulopapillar adenocarcinoma of the colon. Metastases carcinomatosae in lymphonodis. Cancer metastases in the lymph nodes. No IVXIV.G2, Dukes C, Astler - Coller C2, pT4b, pN2.Histopathological diagnosis: Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare coli. Tubulopapillar adenocarcinoma of the colon. Metastases carcinomatosae in lymphonodis. Cancer metastases in the lymph nodes. No IVXIV.G2, Dukes C, Astler - Coller C2, pT4b, pN2.Histopathological diagnosis: Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare coli. Tubulopapillar adenocarcinoma of the colon. Metastases carcinomatosae in lymphonodis. Cancer metastases in the lymph nodes. No IVXIV.G2, Dukes C, Astler - Coller C2, pT4b, pN2.Histopathological diagnosis: Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare coli. Tubulopapillar adenocarcinoma of the colon. Metastases carcinomatosae in lymphonodis. Cancer metastases in the lymph nodes. No IVXIV.G2, Dukes C, Astler - Coller C2, pT4b, pN2.Histopathological diagnosis: Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare coli. Tubulopapillar adenocarcinoma of the colon. Metastases carcinomatosae in lymphonodis. Cancer metastases in the lymph nodes. No IVXIV.G2, Dukes C, Astler - Coller C2, pT4b, pN2.Histopathological diagnosis: Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare coli. Tubulopapillar adenocarcinoma of the colon. Metastases carcinomatosae in lymphonodis. Cancer metastases in the lymph nodes. No IVXIV.G2, Dukes C, Astler - Coller C2, pT4b, pN2. Compliance validated by: Compliance validated by: Compliance validated by: Compliance validated by: Compliance validated by: Compliance validated by: Compliance validated by: Compliance validated by: PESEL: XXX CONTACT YOUR DOCTOR WITH THIS REPORT! 
Type: surgical Patho Pathology Report On: COLON, SEGMENTAL RESECT FOR TUMOR DIAGNOSIS: SIGMOID COLON, SEGMENTAL COLECTOMY: INVASIVE ADENOCARCINOMA of the colon 3.5 x 2.5 x 0.6 cm poorly differentiated invading into the subserosa. Margins of resection are negative for tumor. Tumor is 0.1 em from radial margin. METASTATIC ADENOCARCINOMA in 3 of 20 lymph nodes. Tumor deposits present in serosa. The AJCC classification is T3 Nl Mx. CLINICAL DATA: History: None given. Operation: Sigmoid resection Clinical Diagnosis: Rectal ca TISSUE SUBMITTED: 1. S GROSS DESCRIPTION: The specimen is received fresh, labeled vith the patients name, unit number, and sigmoid colon, is a segment of colon 12 em in length x 3 em in diameter with one stapled resection margin 3.5 em and one open end. There is an ulcerated mass with raised, serpiginous borders 3.5 x 2.5 x 0.6 em located 3 cm from the opened end and 9.5 em from the stapled resection margin. The tumor extends into the muscularis propria, grossly. No extension through to the serosal surface is identified .. The radial margin is 0.1 em. The remainder of the colon segment is unremarkable. Representative sections are submitted. Micro 1: Tumor to open resection margin, perpendiculfragsl Micro 2: Stapled resection margin, en face, 2 frags, ..... Micro 3-4: Full thickness of tumor to areas of deepest 1nvasion and closest radial margin, 3 frags, . Hicro 5: Tumor to proximal and distasa, 2 frags, Micro 6: Uninvolved sigmoid, 3 frags,.....  Micro 7: Potential lymph nodes subto tumor,  frags, Micro 8-11: Lymph nodes, 20 frags, ....... SPECIMEN TYPE: COLON, SEGMENTAL RESECT FOR TUMOR Page: I 01 
ADDENDUM REPOIU: NUMBER 1WO Right coion, partial c ,Iectomy: Poorly diflirentialed adenocarcinoma, deficient gene expression for MLHl and PMs-2; intact gene expression for MSH-2 and MSH-6 immunoh stocemisby. Seacomn COMMENT: The tumor Is DNA mismatch repair d.ficien and should also elCllibit high frequency micros.tellite instabiily. Most tumors will toss olMUil and PMS2 protein .::presslon have primary underlying defects in Ml.HI expression, ilh cHxlstenl loss ofexpr ... lon ofthe binding partner protein PMS2. In moslCSS6 about 9Oh MLHI loss Is caused bysomatichypennethylallon 01 the promoler regloo ofth. MLHI gene. This is. common me:hanism Involved In the progression of .....-.t.d neoplasms 01 the right colon. Som. individuals with these tumors may have an inherited predlsposmon 10 the fomlation 01 multiple serrated neoplasms hypeljlissliclserrated polyposis, ahhough the geneUc basis of this syndrome Is unknown. Th ... lndivic!uols ar, at in,e.sed ns! of melschronous cancelS ofth. right colon. AboUt 10 ofMlHl entlumors are caused by Inhelited gerrnDne defects In the MLHI gene Lynch synarome; also know as heredry 00,, pOlyposis coJQrectal cancer or HNPCC. The pos.SfbUfty of an underlying PMS2 germBne defect cannot be excluded. The tumor does not reveal a BRAF mutation see below which is ofIen seen ilh somatic or hypennethylation of the promoter region o!tIle MLHI gena 1M to further clarify a block altumor i.submitted to the Mayo CnnlcLabcl1ltory for hyperrnetl1ylation testing. Famllv histON evalU ;aHon and additional testinqCQUId be helpful in deterrnlnfna if MlH1 lOSS in the current tumor is caused by methylation or germline rmtatkn. Genetic coynseJing and testing shoukt be considered ffcrln1caUv Indicated. DNA mismatch repair deficient cancers are aSSociated wh improved over. survlv.1. Some studies also demonstrate reslst.nce to 5-Fl1 based chemotherapy and ,,, .. ilivity to innoleesn CPTl1. BRAE Mutation Anll!!IIi SPECIMEN SOURl;e: COLON PARAFAN BLOCK NIJI.IBER: ISll2255I, 6 BRAF Mutation At alysls: NOT OETI:CTEa.......... This resuhwas revlwed and Interpreted b Based on sequenC1 analysis, no mutations were detected in B-RAF exon 11, 12 and 15. C3ncer.ctlWting  RAF mutations can be found in 14 ofcoJcreotal cancer, 2 of lung cancet, and 40 olthyroid concar. Presenca ofBRAF m In colo rectal cancel has been reported to render Ihe tumor res to anfi.EGFR therapy. Documented BRAF polymorphism Is u,u.11y not ,ported and Is a neutral vananl no amino ocId change. This assay may noJ be able to detect mutation n the tumor consliUteS less than 15-20 of enalyZed sample. However, we specificolly m1ctodlssect tumor and selectively anaiyz the tumor in the provided tissue. c  The 8RAF mutatioll analySlfrom Quest DIagnostics uses a DNAbased PCRsequencing .... y to detect somatic mutations on exon 11, 12, and 15 of BRAF, which  102 out of 1 04 reported mutations 99.6 incidence. This test was dave oPed and its peliormance characteristics Performanee tha ctBrislics refer to the analyticol performance oflh. test BRAE Mu!aUon An SPECIMEN SOURCE: COLON PARAl1IN 9LOCI: NUMBER: -----..- .-.... -. . -sRAFMiftlitiOff rialySis: 1 NP , TNPTEST REQU EST CANCELLED NO CHARGE. NORMAl. lISSUEi BLOCK FOR MSI Cancer-aclivating BRAF mutalions can be found in 14 of colorectal cancer. 2 of lung cancer. and 40 of thyroid cancer. Presence ofBRAF mlllation in creclal caneH has been reported 10 render the Mnor resls!sn!1o antl-EGFR tIIerapy. Documented BRA  polymorphism Is usually not reported and is a neutral variant no amino acid change. This assay may net be able to deect mUlation Wthe tumor constiMes I ... than 15-20 of anaed sample. However, we specifically mlcrodissect tumor and selectively an.the tumor in tile provided tissue. The BRAF mutatl n analysis from Quest Diagnostics uses a DNA-based PeR-sequencing assay to detect somatic mutalioos on exon 11. 12, and 15 of BMF, which cover 102 out of104 reported mutations 99.6 Inelden,,. This test was deVEloped and Its pelfoon.nce characteristics have been detennlned by Pelformance cha,der1stics referto the analytical performan ofthetest. Test petformed at DIAGNOSIS: Right colon, partIal colectomy: Tumor :haracleristics: 1. HIstOIOglO type: Adenocarclnoma. 2. Hlsto!oglogradl PoO!ly differentiated. 3. Too1Or sIte: Ce m. 4. Tumor size: 12.9 x5.x 1.5 em. 5. Tumor subtype: Mucinous tumorcomponanl plesent 6. Tumor edensio T, invades through muscularis propria into adjacent fat to involved Inked surface. 7. Margins: Proal margin omaD boWel. negative; distal margin -negative; circumferential redial margin positivs tumor extends to inked sulface. 8. lymphovascular Invasion; Present Lymph 11o .... Stal ... : 1. Nine of sixteen ymph nodes demonslrating metastalic, poorly differentiated carcinoma 9116. 2. Largest replac:al lymph node measures up to 1.4 em. 0ItIer: 1. pTNM slage: pT4a, pN2b. COMMENTS: Mul sections 01 the very large tumor reveals a poorly alfferenllaled adenocarcinoma, compoaed predominantly of solid nests of cells having a moderate amount If oplasm and large vesIcular nuciel wilh prominent nucleoD. Some rudimentary gland formation Is evident Eisswhere, there Is a signal ring appeara nce to the ceDs and also lakes of mucin can be idenlifted. The tumor invadeS transmuraly Into te adjacent fat and focally to the Inked surface olthe fat resumed redial margin. Extensive angio!ymphaticlnvasion Is ... n within the lumor. Mle lymph nodes are involved bymetastatic earoinoma see abc,. Due to the poorly dfferentlated appearance oltlle neoplasm, a series of Immunoperoxidase stains are penormed. The tumor shows moderate 10 focally strong Immunoraaclivltyfor CKl. A stain for CK20 is negative. The COX lmmunostaln reveals some focallmmunoreac1lvity within tUfTlOl cen nuclei. Stains for CK5-6, .ynapIOIysin, PSA, chromogranin andTTFl are negative. A stain forcalretinIn is negative also no nuclear reactivjly. this pattem of Irnmunostalnlng Is omewhat unusual for a coioreclal pOOlary, since most show CK20 Inmunoreactivity and ar. negative fur crcr. However, the focal CDX2 positivity is supportive of a coI primary. In addition, the pooy differentiated appearance of neoplasm and the right sided location sU99esl a possible MSf mionosatenite instabIlity high type of lesion. MSI high carcinomas often do show. reverse staining pattern for CK7 and CK20. Immunohistochemi:al s1a!ns for mismatch repair enzymes evaluation for HNPCC andlor MSI-PCR testing will be pstfonmed on the tumor and reported as an addendum. The groin lesion . . was revIewed as Is a squamous cell carcinoma of the skin. CUNICAL HISTOHY: Pteoperativ DIsg osis: COlon carcinoma. postoperative DigS noslo: SymplomslRadiologio Findings: SPECIMENS: Rightoolon GROSS DESCRIPTION: The specimen Is received In a single formalin file! container labeled with the patianfo name ,and oonsisl ofa rlghthemicolectomy specimen cornprisI of terminal ileum 11.5 an In length x 1.8 an In diameter, cecumlrlght Colon 21.0 em In length and ranging from 4.0 up to 7.0 om In diameter. and v ,rmlfonm sppend, 4.3 ern in length and ranging from 0.5 to 0.7 om In diameter. The specimen is received stapled ciosed at both ends. The serosa i, tarpinK and glistening with adhomt ye!low-tan mesocolon!c fat and a portiOn of omentum. The eeoaJ pouch Is remarKable for a 12.8 x 5.0 x 1.5 err. ocumfefential fungating mass that approaches 10 within 11.0 om ofll1.lIIal mafllin and 15.5 om of tho coloniC mafll!n. On section. this mess extends .hrough Ihe muscularis and appro ache. to v.1hin 0.1 em of the inked deep margin. The remainder of the mucosa is plnk,an and glistening with the IOfmal folds. No additionalleslons are identified. Sections through the append, rev.ala 0.3 om olJipluching at the dislal tip. The lumen Is pinpoint h no perforaUons orfecal. Sections through lie omenlllm reveal  yellow-tan 1ibrofatly cui surface. No tumor Is Identified. Wrthin the mesocolonl. fat are multiple firm fatly possible lymph nodes rangll1g from 0.5 u .... ,  -0 grealesl dimension. Many are Involved by gray-white tumor. Represenfalive sections are subm in cassettes 1 II1rough 191a!eled deslgnated as follows: 1 oolon!cmargln, en face; 2 ileal mafllln, en face; 3-6 mass to Inked deep margln; 7 mass to normal; 8 vetmifonn appendo; 9 and 10 five whole possible lymph nodes in each cassell; 11 four whole possible lymph nodes; 12 two whOle pos,lble bise:ted lymph nodes one Inked; 13 -15 one whole possible biSected lYmPh node in each cassette; 16 -19 ona whole possible quadrlsaoed lymph node.  yelle w, green, and blue cassette are submitted for ge Additional represer taliva sections are llbmlttad a.labeled: 20-23 m!!S1l to uninvolved mucosa. The blocls are labated 
 SPECIMENS: A. SIGMOID COLON B. PROXIMAL DONUT C. DISTAL DONUT DIAGNOSIS: A. SIGMOID COLON, SEGMENTAL RESECTION: INVASIVE MODERATELY DIFFERENTIATED ADENOCARCINOMA EXTENDING TO SUBSEROSA -TUMOR SIZE: 3.5x3.2x0.6 CM -ANGIOLYMPHATICPERINEURAL INVASION NOT I DENTIFIED. -EIGHTEEN LYMPH NODES NEGATIVE FOR TUMOR 018 -TUMOR ARISES IN TUBULAR ADENOMA -UNINVOLVED COLON SHOWS: HYPERPLASTIC POLYP AND DIVERTICULUM - SEE TEMPLATE B. COLON, PROXIMAL DONUT, EXCISION: COLONIC TISSUE, NO TUMOR SEEN. C. COLON, DISTAL DONUT, EXCISION: COLONIC TISSUE, NO TUMOR SEEN. COLORECTAL CANCER TEMPLATE Tumor Size cm: 3.5x3.2x0.6 cm Histologic Type: adenocarcinoma GradeDifferentiation: moderate Invasion Depth: subserosa Invasion VascLymphatic: absent Invasi on Perineural: absent Extension to Adj. Areas: no Margins: free Lymph Nodes: negative 018 Stage Pathology: T3 N0 Mx Precursor: present, tubular adenoma Non-neoplastic areas: hyperplastic polyp, diverticulum SPECIMENS: A. SIGMOID COLON B. PROXIMAL DONUT C. DISTAL DONUT CLINICAL HISTORY: None GROSS DESCRIPTION: A. SIGMOID COLON Received fresh is a 20.0cm. segment of colon with both margins received stapled closed measuring 4.5cm. in diameter and 5.0cm. in diameter. The attached portion of pericolic fat measures 20.0x6.5x2.5cm. Upon opening, the mucosa shows a 3.5x3.2x0.6cm. pink tan ulcerated exophytic polypoid mass located 6.8cm. from the wide margin and 11.0cm. from the narrower margin. Remaining colonic mucosa is pink tan and smooth with a single diverticulum located 2.5cm. from the narrow margin. The tumor is noted to extend into the fat but not to the peritoneal surface. The radial margin of resection is free of any lesion. The peritoneal surface of the tumor and the margi ns are marked by black ink. No discrete nodule lesion is identified in the pericolic fat. Multiple small lymph nodes are identified ranging in size from  0.1cm to 1.0cm. Representative tissue is submitted in nineteen cassettes as follows: A1: 4.5cm. sha ved margin A2: 5.0cm. shaved margin A3: mass with deep margin A4: mass A5: mass with lymph nodes and fatty tissue A6: one lymph node and deep fatty tissue contiguous with A5 A7-A8: mass A9: diverticulum A10: radial margin A11: uninvolved colonic m ucosa A12: five peritumoral lymph nodes A13; four peritumoral lymph nodes A14: two possible peritumoral lymph nodes A15: two possible peritumoral lymph nodes A16: five lymph nodes at narrow margin A17: four possible lymph nodes at narrow margin A18: two lymph nodes at wide margin A19: one lymph node bisected at wide margin B. PROXIMAL DONUT Received without fixative is a ring shaped 1.5x1.5x0.7cm. fragment of smooth, stapled colonic mucosa with slight, focal pink red discoloration. The stapled part is removed and representative tissue is submitted in one cassette. C. DISTAL DONUT Received without fixative is a 1.5x1.5x1.0cm. ring shaped fragment of colonic mucosa with multiple staples. The mucosa is tan, smooth with no discrete lesion. The stapled part is removed and the remaining fragment of tissue is submitted in one cassette. 
 Diagnosis  Diagnoses:  1.: Adnexa right with a serous cystadenofibroma of the ovary, measuring 8 cm in diameter. Tube without relevant pathological findings. 2. right hemicolectomy specimen with an ulcerated colon carcinoma conforming to the histological type of a moderately differentiated colorectal adenocarcinoma, located 6 cm aboral to Bauhins valve and with a greatest diameter of 3 cm. Invasive spread of tumor within all layers of the intestinal wall and as far as the neighboring fatty tiss ue. Appendix without relevant pathological findings. Oral and aboral resection margins and large omentum tumor -free. Twenty regional lymph nodes tumor -free with uncharacteristic reactive changes. Tumor stage thus pT3 pN0 020 L0, V0; G2. 
IndexSpecimen labelClinical Site Case Ethnicity RaceClinical DiagnosisDOB mmddyyyySexDate of procuremen t 1 Colorectal cancer Colorectal cancer Anatomical SiteTumor LocationTissue Specificatio nSpecimen MatrixSpecimen FormatContainerNumber of containersAmountper containerUnit Colon, sigmoidPrimary Tumor Tissue Frozen cryomold 1 390 mg Blood na normal Blood Frozen tube 1 4 ml Type of Procuremen tHistological description Grade TNM Stage TTNM Stage NTNM Stage MPrior Chemo  Hormonal ThChemo  Horm Th DetailsPrior Radiation Surgery Adenocarcinoma no data 3 x 0 no no no Blood draw na na na na na no no no Cellular Tumor  70 na 
I IC-6-a-3 O N s P 13 Tnnac ,, C Qc Clx, 7 t Sample ID : Diagnosis: I.: Colon resectate under inclusion of a moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma of the colorectal type and of a max. size of 3 cm, with infiltration of the pericolic fatty tissue and seven regional lymph node metastases, one of which is located in the mesenteric resection margin. Tumor-free small and large intestinal resection margins. 2.: Ileocolon resectate under inclusion of a moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma of the colorectal type, formed at the base of a tubular adenoma with high-grade dysplasia and located in the cecum, with infiltration of the tunica submucosa. Tumor-free regional lymph nodes. Tumor-free small and large intestinal resection margins. Tumor-free mesenteric resection margin. Tumor-free appendix. Tumor-free omental fat tissue. Tumor stage for I.: pT3 pN2 725 pMX; G2 LI VO, locally RO Tumor stage for 2 .:pTl pNO 026 pMX ;G2, LO, VO, RO UUID.TCGA6AA-A OF lA-PR OFFDACE32Redacted 1111111 III IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIII IIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIII III IIIIIIIIIIIIII 11111111 I II Uttert. Di. nosie Discraprn Prima Tumor Site Discrepncy HIPAAOisae ancy Pria Mal :nanq Hisrory DualSynch-o, Nunary N, cu. T.- Is R- 
Diagnosis: Ileocolic resection material includes a moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma of the colorectal type in the transverse colon, 6.5 cm from the aboral resection margin, with central ulceration and with incipient infiltration of the pericolic fa tty tissue maximum infiltration depth in the perimuscular fatty tissue at the histological section less than 1 mm. Tumor -free regional lymph nodes. Tumor -free resection margins of small intestine and colon. Tumor -free mesenteric resection margin. Tumor -free appendix. Tumor -free fatty tissue of the omentum. Also so- called retention polyp of the colon mucosa. Tumor stage: pT3 pN0 041 pMX; G2, L0 V0 R0 
CD-o-3 akrLot.wcan  W s 9 q o3 f-4 - I -W PI I Coi n d 9 7 11Sample ID : Diagnosis: 1.: Normal, tumor -free gall bladder with no macroscopic or microscopic indications of the presence of a polyp and with no notable florid or chronic inflammatory changes. Two tumor -free perivesicular lymph nodes. 2.: A further tumor-free lymph node. 3.: Resectate of the colon sigmoid colon with tumor -free oral and aboral resection margins and under inclusion of an ulcerated ,moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma with penetration of all layers of the wall ,penetration of the peritoneum ,encroaching on the subserosa of a segment of the small intestine in the vicinity and with a solitary regional lymph node metastasis G2, pT4 1.1 VO pN1 131. QUID.7F67ES29-D10E-4B47-B0A1 -6029B57ED112 Red TCGA-AA- IIIIIIIIIIfl1111111111I11111111111111111111ted 111 II 1111111II1I11I11111III Jill IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 111111114111111111111111 1111 III 1011111111I IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII Prior Malinancy 1listory  DudSynchronous Primary Noted I circle: QUALIFIED  DISQUALI IytiAs1 Dateaeviewed: E
Diagnosis  Diagnoses: 1.: Right hemicolectomy specimen, under inclusion of a centrally ulcerated, moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma of the colorectal type and of a maximum of 3 cm in length, with infiltration of the pericolic fat tissue. No regiona l lymph node metastases. Tumor -free resection margins and tumor -free omental fat tissue. 2.: Moderate chronic fibrosing cholecystitis with chronic fibrosing pericholecystitis and cholecystolithiasis. Tumor stage: pT3 pN0 023 pMX; G2
RUN DATE : RUN TIME:, RUN USER :UUID:0E9A48BA-AAEO-4D88-98E1-141483700759 TCGA-NH-A8F7 -06A-PR Redacted 111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111III IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIII11111111III IIIIII1111IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIiIII IIIIIIIIIII111 PATIENT: REG DR : SPEC  :IPAGE 1 Lab Database: ACCT It: LOC : AGESX:,F ROOM: DOB: BED: STATUS: RECD: STATUS: PERFORMED AT COLL: TIME IN FORMALIN: hrs. COLD ISCHEMA TIME: mins. CLINICAL INFORMATION: Pro-Op Diagnosis: Remarks: Specimens: A.Subtotal colectomy with left tube and ovary B.Right tube and ovary COLON, TERMINAL ILEUM,APPENDIX AND OMENTUM SUBTOTAL COLECTOMY: TUMOR  1 -MODERATELY DIFFERENTIATED ADENOCARCINOMA OF CECUM TUMOR INVADES THROUGH THE BOWEL WALL METASTATIC CARCINOMA IN 8 OF 23 REGIONAL LYMPH NODES METASTATIC CARCINOMA TO OMENTUM MARGINS APPEAR UNINVOLVED WITH CLOSEST MARGIN RADIAL. 1 CM TO METASTATIC CARCINOMA TUMOR 2 -MODERATELY DIFFERENTIATED ADENOCARCINOMA ,SIGMOID COLON TUMOR INVADES FOCALLY THROUGH THE BOWEL WALL ,QiQL NO METASTASIS IN 18 REGIONAL LYMPH NODES MARGINS APPEAR UNINVOLVED WITH CLOSEST MARGIN DISTAL AT 5 CM FROM TUMOR LEFT FALLOPIAN TUBE AND OVARY SALPINGO-OPHORECTOMY f - METASTATIC ADENOCARCINOMA TO OVARY Ci RIGHT FALLOPIAN TUBE AND OVARY SALPINGO-OOPHORECTOMY: METASTATIC ADENOCARCINOMA TO FIMBRIATED END OF FALLOPIAN TUBE COMMENTS The subtotal colectomy contained two separate but histoicgically indistinguishable, moderately differentiated adenocarcinomas. Tumor 1 was located in the cecum and appeared more advanced with numerous metastasis to regional lymph nodes. Tumor 2 was located in the siamoid colon without regional lymph node metastasis. In completing the synoptic reports below. I judged the metastatic tumor to be associated with the more advanced cecal adenocarcinoma. CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE RUN DATE: RUN TIME: RUN USER: SPEC tt K COMMENTS ContinuedContinued SURGICAL PATHOLOGY CANCER CASE SUMMARY CECAL TUMOR - CAP APPROVED Specimen: Procedures: CECALTUMOR: Tumor Site: Tumor Size: Macroscopic Tumor Perforation: Histologic Type: Histologic Grade: Microscopic Tumor Extension: Margins: Treatment Effect: Lymph-Vascular Invasion Perineural Invasion: Tumor Deposits: Pathologic Staging: SIGMOID TUMOR Tumor Site: Tumor Size: Macroscopic Tumor Perforation: Histologic Type: Histologic Grade: Microscopic Tumor Extension MarginsTerminal ileum, cecum, appendix, ascending colon, transverse colon, descending colon, sigrnoid colon, bilateral ovaries and fallopian tubes, omentum Subtotal colectomy with BSO Cecum 4.5 cm in greatest dimensions Not identified Adenocarcinoma Low-grade Tumor invades through the muscularis propria into the subserosal adipose tissue or the nonperitonealized pericolic or perirectal soft tissues but does not extend to the serosal surface Proximal. distal and radial margins appear uninvolved with metastatic tumor within 1 cm of radial margin at ileocecal junction No prior treatment Present Not identified Present Primary Tumor- pT3 Regional Lymph Nodes: pN2b Number examined: 23 Number involved: 8 Distant Metastasis: pMlb - metastasis to left ovary, right fallopian tube and omentum Sigmoid colon 5.5 cm in greatest dimensions Not identified Adenocarcinoma Low-grade Tumor invades through the muscularis propria into the subserosal adipose tissue or the nonperitonealized pericolic or perirectal soft tissues but does not extend to the serosai surface Proximal, distal and radial margins appear uninvolved with metastatic tumor within 5 cm from distal margin Treatment EffectNoprior treatment Lymph-Vascular Invasion: Notidentified Perineural Invasion:Notidentified Tumor DepositsNotidentified Pathologic Staging:Primary Tumor: pT3PAGE 2 Specimen Inquiry Lab Database: PATIENT: kCONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE RUN DATE: PAGE 3 RUN TIME: Specimen Inquiry RUN USER: Lab Database: SPEC It:-  PATIENT !! Continued COMMENT S Continued Regional Lymph Nodes: pNO Number examined: 18 Number involved: 0 Distant Metastasis :not applicable GROSS DESCRIPTION: Specimen A is received in the fresh state labeled subtotal colectomy with left tube and ovary. The specimen consists of the following: 15 cm of terminal ileum measuring 2 cm in diameter vermiform appendix measuring 5 cm in length by 0.7 cm in diameter -65 cm of large intestine measuring approximately 5 cm in diameter Attached omentum measuring 20 x 14 by up to 2 cm in thickness An ovary and fallopian tube attached in the area of the sigmoid colon -Mesentery measuring up to 9 cm in radial dimension at the ileocecal ;unction and up to 9 cm in radial dimension at the sigmoid colon Adhesions are noted at the ileocecal junction and between the ovary and sigmoid colon, There are firm tumorous nodules in the mesentery at the ileocecal ;unction and in the omentum.The omental tumor nodule measures 2 cm in greatest dimension. There are multiple mesenteric nodules at the ileocecal junction measuring up to 1.5 cm in greatest dimension. The bowel is opened to reveal a circumferential fungating tumor in the cecum approximately 2cm from the ileocecal valve.This tumor measures 4 5 cm along the length of the bowel. The bowel is narrowed in this area. A second circumferential fungating mucosal tumor is identified 5 cm above the distal margin. This second tumor measures 5.5 cm along the length of the bowel and again the bowel appears narrowed in this area. The attached ovary appears enlarged, measuring 5 x 4.5 x 3 cm. It has a smooth tan surface. Its cut surface reveals soft tan tumorous tissue replacing 90 of the ovary. The fallopian tube with fimbriated end measures 4.5 cm in length by 0.5 cm in diameter. The initial gross features are reported to Dr in the O.R. atThe specimen is allowed to fix overnight prior to sectioning.Representcuav- sections are submitted as follows: Al-terminal ileum A2-vermiform appendix A3-6 - cecaltumor A7-12- lymphnodes in mesentery regional to cecal tumor A13-apex of ileocecal mesentery A14-omental tumor nodule A15,16- left ovary and tube A17-20- distal tumor A21-distal margin A22-25- lymphnodes and mesentery regional to distal tumor NOTE:The tumors invade the full thickness of the bowel wall, likely extending through the bowel wall. Specimen B is received in tormalin labeled right tube and ovary This is an ovary with CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE PAGE 4RUN DATE: RUN TIME: Specimen Inquiry RUN USER: Lab Database: SPECa: PATIENT: now Continued GROSS DESCRIPTION: Continued attached fallopian tube. The tube with fimbriated and measures 4.5 cm in length by 0.5 cm in diameter. The ovary measures 3.5 x 1.2 x 1 cm. It has a normal appearing wrinkled tan surface. The tube is unremarkable. The ovary has a solid tan to white cut surface without obvious tumor. Representative sections are submitted in cassettes Bi and B2. INTRAOPERATIVE CONSULTATION: SUBTOTAL COLECTOMY. GROSS EXAM: TWO SEPARATE COLON CANCERS IDENTIFIED, ONE IN THE CECUM AND THE OTHER 5 CM ABOVE THE DISTAL MARGIN -MARGINS APPEAR UNINVOLVED FINDINGS REPORTED TO DR. q IN THE. O.R. AT -TUMOR HARVESTED FOR TISSUE BANKING Image Signed signature on file 49  END OF REPORT  .ri.13 f.3 ACV15:0! BoteI54UAL-------1
RUN DATE: RUN TIME: RUN USER:UUID:4D9A2D24 -529F-4CFE -8444-013FAAF696EC TCGA-NH-A8F7 -e1A-PR Redacted III IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIlIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII!IIIIIIIIPAGE 1 Lab Database: PATIENT: ACCT :4 AGESX: F REG DR: DOB: STATUS:LOC : ROOM: BED: rJONM SPEC:, RECD: STATUS: PERFORMED AT I COLL: TIMEIN FORMALIN: hrs. COLDISCHEMA TIME: mins. CLINICAL INFORMATION: Pre-Op Diagnosis: Remarks: Specimens: A.Subtotal colectomy with left tube and ovary B.Right tube and ovary le eie 4Ja Ve-1---tje-S -S14ZA COLON, TERMINAL ILEUM,APPENDIX AND OMENTUM SUBTOTAL COLECTOMY: TUMOR 1 MODERATELY DIFFERENTIATED ADENOCARCINOMA OF CECUM -TUMOR INVADES THROUGH THE BOWEL WALL METASTATIC CARCINOMA IN 8 OF 23 REGIONAL LYMPH NODES METASTATIC CARCINOMA TO OMENTUM -MARGINS APPEAR UNINVOLVED WITH CLOSEST MARGIN RADIAL. 1 CM TO METASTATIC CARCINOMA TUMOR 2 MODERATELY DIFFERENTIATED ADENOCARCINOMA ,SIGMOID COLON TUMOR INVADES FOCALLY THROUGH THE BOWEL WALL  -NO METASTASIS IN 18 REGIONAL LYMPH NODES MARGINS APPEAR UNINVOLVED WITH CLOSEST MARGIN DISTAL AT 5 CM FROM TUMOR LEFT FALLOPIAN TUBE AND OVARY SALP I NGO -OPHORECI OMY  METASTATIC ADENOCARCINOMA TO OVARY RIGHT FALLOPIAN TUBE AND OVARY SALPINGO-OOPHORECTOMY: METASTATIC ADENOCARCINOMA TO FIMBRIATED END OF FALLOPIAN TUBE COMMENTS The subtotal colectomy contained two separate but histologically indistinguishable, moderately differentiated adenocarcinomas. Tumor 1 was located in the cecum and appeared more advanced with numerous metastasis to regional lymph nodes. Tumor 2 was located in the sigmoid colon without regional lymph node metastasis. In completing the synoptic reports below, I judged the metastatic tumor to be associated with the more advanced cecal adenocarcinoma.  CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE RUN DATE: PAGE 2 RUN TIME:Specimen Inquiry RUN USER:Lab Database: SPEC i PATIENT: Terminal ileum, cecum, appendix, ascending colon, transverse colon, descending colon. sigmoid colon, bilateral ovaries and fallopian tubes, omentum Subtotal colectomy with BSOContinued COMMENT SContinued SURGICAL PATHOLOGY CANCER CASE SUMMARY CECAL TUMOR - CAP APPROVED Specimen: Procedures: CECAL TUMOR : Tumor Site: Tumor Size: Macroscopic Tumor Histologic Type: Histologic Grade: Microscopic TumorPerforation: Extension:Cecum 4,5 cm in greatest Not identified Adenocarcinoma Low-gradedimensions Tumor invades through the subserosal adipose tissue1W muscularis propria into the or the nonperitonealized tissues but does not extend pericolic or perirectal soft to the serosal surface Margins: Treatment Effect: Lymph-Vascular Invasion Perineural Invasion: Tumor Deposits: Pathologic Staging:Proximal, distal and radial margins appear uninvolved with metastatic tumor within 1 cm of radial margin at ileocecal junction No prior treatment Present Not identified Present Primary Tumor: pT3 Regional Lymph Nodes: Number examined: 23 Number involved: 8 metastasis to left and omentumpN2b Distant Metastasis: pMlb - ovary, right fallopian tube SIGMOID TUMOR Tumor Site: Tumor Size: Macroscopic Tumor Perforation: Histologic Type: Histologic Grade: Microscopic Tumor Extension: Margins: Treatment Effect. Lymph-Vascular Invasion: Perineural Invasion: Tumor Deposits: Pathologic Staging:Sigmoid colon 5.5 cm in greatest dimensions Not identified Adenocarcinoma Low-grade Tumor invades through the muscularis propria into the subserosal adipose tissue or the nonperitonealized pericolic or perirectal soft tissues but does not extend to the serosal surface Proximal, distal and radial margins appear uninvolved with metastatic tumor within 5 cm from distal margin No prior treatment Not identified Not identified Not identified Primary Tumor: pT3  CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE RUN DATE: PAGE 3 RUN TIME : Specimen Inquiry RUN USER: Lab Database: SPEC 0: - . PATIENT Continued COMMENTS Continued Regional Lymph Nodes: pNO Number examined: 18 Number involved: 0 Distant Metastasis :not applicable GROSS DESCRIPTION: Specimen A is received in the fresh state labeled subtotal colectomy with left tube and ovary. The specimen consists of the following: 15 cm of terminal ileum measuring 2 cm in diameter Vermiform appendix measuring 5 cm in length by 0,7 cm in diameter 65 cm of large intestine measuring approximately 5 cm in diameter Attached omentum measuring 20 x 14 by up to 2 cm in thickness An ovary and fallopian tube attached in the area of the sigmoid colon Mesentery measuring up to 9 cm in radial dimension at the ileocecal junction and up to 9 cm in radial dimension at the sigmoid colon Adhesions are noted at the ileocecal junction and between the ovary and sigmoid colon. There are firm tumorous nodules in the mesentery at the ileocecal junction and in the omentum, The omental tumor nodule measures 2 cm in greatest dimension. There are multiple mesenteric nodules at the ileocecal junction measuring up to 1.5 cm in greatest dimension. The bowel is opened to reveal a circumferential fungating tumor in the cecum approximately 2cm from the ileocecal valve. This tumor measures 4 5 cm along the length of the bowel. The bowel is narrowed in this area. A second circumferential fungating mucosal tumor is identified 5 cm above the distal margin. This second tumor measures 5.5 cm along the length of the bowel and again the bowel appears narrowed in this area. The attached ovary appears enlarged, measuring 5 x 4.5 x 3 cm. It has a smooth tan surface. Its cut surface reveals soft tan tumorous tissue replacing 90 of the ovary. The fallopian tube with fimbriated end measures 4.5 cm in length by 0.5 cm in diameter. The initial gross features are reported to Dr in the OR. at The specimen is allowed to fix overnight prior to sectioning. Represeniau.Lv.. sections are submitted as follows: Al-terminal ileum A2-vermiform appendix A3-6 - cecaltumor A7-12- lymphnodes in mesentery regional to cecal tumor A13-apex of ileocecal mesentery A14-omental tumor nodule A15.16- left ovary and tube A17-20- distal tumor A21-distal margin A22-25- lymphnodes and mesentery regional to distal tumor NOTE: The tumors invade the full thickness of the bowel wall, likely extending through the bowel wall. Specimen B is received in formalin labeled right tubeand ovary This is an ovary with  CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE RUN DATE: RUN TIME: Specimen Inquiry RUN USER: Lab Database: SPEC : PATIENT:PAGE 4 Continued GROSS DESCRIPTION :Continued attached fallopian tube .The tube with fimbriated end measures 4.5 cm in length by 0.5 cm in diameter .The ovary measures 3.5 x 1.2 x 1 cm .It has a normal appearing wrinkled tan surface .The tube is unremarkable .The ovary has a solid tan to white cut surface without obvious tumor.Representative sections are submitted in cassettes B1 and B2. INTRAOPERATIVE CONSULTATION: SUBTOTAL COLECTOMY, GROSS EXAM: -TWO SEPARATE COLON CANCERS IDENTIFIED ,ONE IN THE CECUM AND THE OTHER 5 C14 ABOVE THE DISTAL MARGIN -MARGINS APPEAR UNINVOLVED -FINDINGS REPORTED TO DR .r IN THE .O.R. AT -TUMOR HARVESTED FOR TISSUE BANKING Image Signed signature on file  END OF REPORT  RevleWtT
 page 1  1 page 1  1 page 1  1 page 1  1 page 1  1 page 1  1 Department of Cancer Pathology Department of Cancer Pathology Department of Cancer Pathology Department of Cancer Pathology Department of Cancer Pathology Department of Cancer Pathology Department of Cancer Pathology Department of Cancer Pathology Department of Cancer Pathology Department of Cancer Pathology Department of Cancer Pathology Department of Cancer Pathology copy No. 6 Date: Date: Date: Date: Date: ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon Internal invoice No.Internal invoice No.Internal invoice No.Internal invoice No. Cost of diagnosOc procedureCost of diagnosOc procedureCost of diagnosOc procedureCost of diagnosOc procedureCost of diagnosOc procedureCost of diagnosOc procedureCost of diagnosOc procedure ExaminaFon No.: ExaminaFon No.: PaOent: XXXPaOent: XXXPaOent: XXX PESEL: XXXPESEL: XXXPESEL: XXX Age: Age: Gender: Gender: Gender: Gender: Gender: Material: 1. ParFal organ resecFon  rectum and sigmoid colon 2. Total organ resecFon  appendix 3. MulFple organ resecFon  oviducts and ovary 4. Total organ resecFon  leV overy 5. Scrapings  small intesFne, mesentery 6. Lesion excision - intesFneMaterial: 1. ParFal organ resecFon  rectum and sigmoid colon 2. Total organ resecFon  appendix 3. MulFple organ resecFon  oviducts and ovary 4. Total organ resecFon  leV overy 5. Scrapings  small intesFne, mesentery 6. Lesion excision - intesFneMaterial: 1. ParFal organ resecFon  rectum and sigmoid colon 2. Total organ resecFon  appendix 3. MulFple organ resecFon  oviducts and ovary 4. Total organ resecFon  leV overy 5. Scrapings  small intesFne, mesentery 6. Lesion excision - intesFneMaterial: 1. ParFal organ resecFon  rectum and sigmoid colon 2. Total organ resecFon  appendix 3. MulFple organ resecFon  oviducts and ovary 4. Total organ resecFon  leV overy 5. Scrapings  small intesFne, mesentery 6. Lesion excision - intesFneMaterial: 1. ParFal organ resecFon  rectum and sigmoid colon 2. Total organ resecFon  appendix 3. MulFple organ resecFon  oviducts and ovary 4. Total organ resecFon  leV overy 5. Scrapings  small intesFne, mesentery 6. Lesion excision - intesFneMaterial: 1. ParFal organ resecFon  rectum and sigmoid colon 2. Total organ resecFon  appendix 3. MulFple organ resecFon  oviducts and ovary 4. Total organ resecFon  leV overy 5. Scrapings  small intesFne, mesentery 6. Lesion excision - intesFneMaterial: 1. ParFal organ resecFon  rectum and sigmoid colon 2. Total organ resecFon  appendix 3. MulFple organ resecFon  oviducts and ovary 4. Total organ resecFon  leV overy 5. Scrapings  small intesFne, mesentery 6. Lesion excision - intesFneMaterial: 1. ParFal organ resecFon  rectum and sigmoid colon 2. Total organ resecFon  appendix 3. MulFple organ resecFon  oviducts and ovary 4. Total organ resecFon  leV overy 5. Scrapings  small intesFne, mesentery 6. Lesion excision - intesFneMaterial: 1. ParFal organ resecFon  rectum and sigmoid colon 2. Total organ resecFon  appendix 3. MulFple organ resecFon  oviducts and ovary 4. Total organ resecFon  leV overy 5. Scrapings  small intesFne, mesentery 6. Lesion excision - intesFneMaterial: 1. ParFal organ resecFon  rectum and sigmoid colon 2. Total organ resecFon  appendix 3. MulFple organ resecFon  oviducts and ovary 4. Total organ resecFon  leV overy 5. Scrapings  small intesFne, mesentery 6. Lesion excision - intesFneMaterial: 1. ParFal organ resecFon  rectum and sigmoid colon 2. Total organ resecFon  appendix 3. MulFple organ resecFon  oviducts and ovary 4. Total organ resecFon  leV overy 5. Scrapings  small intesFne, mesentery 6. Lesion excision - intesFneMaterial: 1. ParFal organ resecFon  rectum and sigmoid colon 2. Total organ resecFon  appendix 3. MulFple organ resecFon  oviducts and ovary 4. Total organ resecFon  leV overy 5. Scrapings  small intesFne, mesentery 6. Lesion excision - intesFneMaterial: 1. ParFal organ resecFon  rectum and sigmoid colon 2. Total organ resecFon  appendix 3. MulFple organ resecFon  oviducts and ovary 4. Total organ resecFon  leV overy 5. Scrapings  small intesFne, mesentery 6. Lesion excision - intesFne Unit in charge: Unit in charge: Unit in charge: Unit in charge: Unit in charge: Unit in charge: Unit in charge: Unit in charge: Unit in charge: Unit in charge: Unit in charge: Unit in charge: Unit in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Material collected on:Material collected on: Material received on: Material received on: Material received on: Material received on: Material received on: Material received on: Expected Ome of examinaOon: Expected Ome of examinaOon: Expected Ome of examinaOon: Expected Ome of examinaOon: Expected Ome of examinaOon: Expected Ome of examinaOon: Expected Ome of examinaOon: Expected Ome of examinaOon: Expected Ome of examinaOon: Expected Ome of examinaOon: Expected Ome of examinaOon: Expected Ome of examinaOon: Expected Ome of examinaOon: Clinical diagnosis: LeV oviducts and ovaryClinical diagnosis: LeV oviducts and ovaryClinical diagnosis: LeV oviducts and ovaryClinical diagnosis: LeV oviducts and ovaryClinical diagnosis: LeV oviducts and ovaryClinical diagnosis: LeV oviducts and ovaryClinical diagnosis: LeV oviducts and ovaryClinical diagnosis: LeV oviducts and ovaryClinical diagnosis: LeV oviducts and ovaryClinical diagnosis: LeV oviducts and ovaryClinical diagnosis: LeV oviducts and ovaryClinical diagnosis: LeV oviducts and ovaryClinical diagnosis: LeV oviducts and ovary ExaminaOon performed on: ExaminaOon performed on: ExaminaOon performed on: ExaminaOon performed on: ExaminaOon performed on: ExaminaOon performed on: ExaminaOon performed on: ExaminaOon performed on: ExaminaOon performed on: Macroscopic descripOon : 1. A 18.4 cm length of the large intesFne with a 20 x 4 x 3.5 cm piece of mesentery. Ulcerous tumour sized 3.6 x 3.8 x 0.9 cm found in the mucosa. The lesion surrounds 90 of the intesFne circumference, is located 8.6 cm from one of the incision lines and 8.8 cm from the other. 2. Appendix of 5.9 cm in length.3. LeV ovary sized: 4.2 x 2.3 x 2.2 cm with oviduct of 10 cm in length.4. Fragment of the ovary sized: 4.4 x 2.7 x 1.3 cm with a cyst of 1.5 cm.5. Many specimens of 0.8 cm diameter.6. Two Fssue rings of 2 cm diameter.Macroscopic descripOon : 1. A 18.4 cm length of the large intesFne with a 20 x 4 x 3.5 cm piece of mesentery. Ulcerous tumour sized 3.6 x 3.8 x 0.9 cm found in the mucosa. The lesion surrounds 90 of the intesFne circumference, is located 8.6 cm from one of the incision lines and 8.8 cm from the other. 2. Appendix of 5.9 cm in length.3. LeV ovary sized: 4.2 x 2.3 x 2.2 cm with oviduct of 10 cm in length.4. Fragment of the ovary sized: 4.4 x 2.7 x 1.3 cm with a cyst of 1.5 cm.5. Many specimens of 0.8 cm diameter.6. Two Fssue rings of 2 cm diameter.Macroscopic descripOon : 1. A 18.4 cm length of the large intesFne with a 20 x 4 x 3.5 cm piece of mesentery. Ulcerous tumour sized 3.6 x 3.8 x 0.9 cm found in the mucosa. The lesion surrounds 90 of the intesFne circumference, is located 8.6 cm from one of the incision lines and 8.8 cm from the other. 2. Appendix of 5.9 cm in length.3. LeV ovary sized: 4.2 x 2.3 x 2.2 cm with oviduct of 10 cm in length.4. Fragment of the ovary sized: 4.4 x 2.7 x 1.3 cm with a cyst of 1.5 cm.5. Many specimens of 0.8 cm diameter.6. Two Fssue rings of 2 cm diameter.Macroscopic descripOon : 1. A 18.4 cm length of the large intesFne with a 20 x 4 x 3.5 cm piece of mesentery. Ulcerous tumour sized 3.6 x 3.8 x 0.9 cm found in the mucosa. The lesion surrounds 90 of the intesFne circumference, is located 8.6 cm from one of the incision lines and 8.8 cm from the other. 2. Appendix of 5.9 cm in length.3. LeV ovary sized: 4.2 x 2.3 x 2.2 cm with oviduct of 10 cm in length.4. Fragment of the ovary sized: 4.4 x 2.7 x 1.3 cm with a cyst of 1.5 cm.5. Many specimens of 0.8 cm diameter.6. Two Fssue rings of 2 cm diameter.Macroscopic descripOon : 1. A 18.4 cm length of the large intesFne with a 20 x 4 x 3.5 cm piece of mesentery. Ulcerous tumour sized 3.6 x 3.8 x 0.9 cm found in the mucosa. The lesion surrounds 90 of the intesFne circumference, is located 8.6 cm from one of the incision lines and 8.8 cm from the other. 2. Appendix of 5.9 cm in length.3. LeV ovary sized: 4.2 x 2.3 x 2.2 cm with oviduct of 10 cm in length.4. Fragment of the ovary sized: 4.4 x 2.7 x 1.3 cm with a cyst of 1.5 cm.5. Many specimens of 0.8 cm diameter.6. Two Fssue rings of 2 cm diameter.Macroscopic descripOon : 1. A 18.4 cm length of the large intesFne with a 20 x 4 x 3.5 cm piece of mesentery. Ulcerous tumour sized 3.6 x 3.8 x 0.9 cm found in the mucosa. The lesion surrounds 90 of the intesFne circumference, is located 8.6 cm from one of the incision lines and 8.8 cm from the other. 2. Appendix of 5.9 cm in length.3. LeV ovary sized: 4.2 x 2.3 x 2.2 cm with oviduct of 10 cm in length.4. Fragment of the ovary sized: 4.4 x 2.7 x 1.3 cm with a cyst of 1.5 cm.5. Many specimens of 0.8 cm diameter.6. Two Fssue rings of 2 cm diameter.Macroscopic descripOon : 1. A 18.4 cm length of the large intesFne with a 20 x 4 x 3.5 cm piece of mesentery. Ulcerous tumour sized 3.6 x 3.8 x 0.9 cm found in the mucosa. The lesion surrounds 90 of the intesFne circumference, is located 8.6 cm from one of the incision lines and 8.8 cm from the other. 2. Appendix of 5.9 cm in length.3. LeV ovary sized: 4.2 x 2.3 x 2.2 cm with oviduct of 10 cm in length.4. Fragment of the ovary sized: 4.4 x 2.7 x 1.3 cm with a cyst of 1.5 cm.5. Many specimens of 0.8 cm diameter.6. Two Fssue rings of 2 cm diameter.Macroscopic descripOon : 1. A 18.4 cm length of the large intesFne with a 20 x 4 x 3.5 cm piece of mesentery. Ulcerous tumour sized 3.6 x 3.8 x 0.9 cm found in the mucosa. The lesion surrounds 90 of the intesFne circumference, is located 8.6 cm from one of the incision lines and 8.8 cm from the other. 2. Appendix of 5.9 cm in length.3. LeV ovary sized: 4.2 x 2.3 x 2.2 cm with oviduct of 10 cm in length.4. Fragment of the ovary sized: 4.4 x 2.7 x 1.3 cm with a cyst of 1.5 cm.5. Many specimens of 0.8 cm diameter.6. Two Fssue rings of 2 cm diameter.Macroscopic descripOon : 1. A 18.4 cm length of the large intesFne with a 20 x 4 x 3.5 cm piece of mesentery. Ulcerous tumour sized 3.6 x 3.8 x 0.9 cm found in the mucosa. The lesion surrounds 90 of the intesFne circumference, is located 8.6 cm from one of the incision lines and 8.8 cm from the other. 2. Appendix of 5.9 cm in length.3. LeV ovary sized: 4.2 x 2.3 x 2.2 cm with oviduct of 10 cm in length.4. Fragment of the ovary sized: 4.4 x 2.7 x 1.3 cm with a cyst of 1.5 cm.5. Many specimens of 0.8 cm diameter.6. Two Fssue rings of 2 cm diameter.Macroscopic descripOon : 1. A 18.4 cm length of the large intesFne with a 20 x 4 x 3.5 cm piece of mesentery. Ulcerous tumour sized 3.6 x 3.8 x 0.9 cm found in the mucosa. The lesion surrounds 90 of the intesFne circumference, is located 8.6 cm from one of the incision lines and 8.8 cm from the other. 2. Appendix of 5.9 cm in length.3. LeV ovary sized: 4.2 x 2.3 x 2.2 cm with oviduct of 10 cm in length.4. Fragment of the ovary sized: 4.4 x 2.7 x 1.3 cm with a cyst of 1.5 cm.5. Many specimens of 0.8 cm diameter.6. Two Fssue rings of 2 cm diameter.Macroscopic descripOon : 1. A 18.4 cm length of the large intesFne with a 20 x 4 x 3.5 cm piece of mesentery. Ulcerous tumour sized 3.6 x 3.8 x 0.9 cm found in the mucosa. The lesion surrounds 90 of the intesFne circumference, is located 8.6 cm from one of the incision lines and 8.8 cm from the other. 2. Appendix of 5.9 cm in length.3. LeV ovary sized: 4.2 x 2.3 x 2.2 cm with oviduct of 10 cm in length.4. Fragment of the ovary sized: 4.4 x 2.7 x 1.3 cm with a cyst of 1.5 cm.5. Many specimens of 0.8 cm diameter.6. Two Fssue rings of 2 cm diameter.Macroscopic descripOon : 1. A 18.4 cm length of the large intesFne with a 20 x 4 x 3.5 cm piece of mesentery. Ulcerous tumour sized 3.6 x 3.8 x 0.9 cm found in the mucosa. The lesion surrounds 90 of the intesFne circumference, is located 8.6 cm from one of the incision lines and 8.8 cm from the other. 2. Appendix of 5.9 cm in length.3. LeV ovary sized: 4.2 x 2.3 x 2.2 cm with oviduct of 10 cm in length.4. Fragment of the ovary sized: 4.4 x 2.7 x 1.3 cm with a cyst of 1.5 cm.5. Many specimens of 0.8 cm diameter.6. Two Fssue rings of 2 cm diameter.Macroscopic descripOon : 1. A 18.4 cm length of the large intesFne with a 20 x 4 x 3.5 cm piece of mesentery. Ulcerous tumour sized 3.6 x 3.8 x 0.9 cm found in the mucosa. The lesion surrounds 90 of the intesFne circumference, is located 8.6 cm from one of the incision lines and 8.8 cm from the other. 2. Appendix of 5.9 cm in length.3. LeV ovary sized: 4.2 x 2.3 x 2.2 cm with oviduct of 10 cm in length.4. Fragment of the ovary sized: 4.4 x 2.7 x 1.3 cm with a cyst of 1.5 cm.5. Many specimens of 0.8 cm diameter.6. Two Fssue rings of 2 cm diameter. Microscopic descripOon : 1. Adenocarcinoma tubulare G2. InltraFo carcinomatosa telae adiposae pericolicae. Intensive inammatory inltraFon around the tumour. Incision lines free of neoplasFc lesions. Metastases carcinomatosae in lymphonodo NO IXII.Microscopic descripOon : 1. Adenocarcinoma tubulare G2. InltraFo carcinomatosa telae adiposae pericolicae. Intensive inammatory inltraFon around the tumour. Incision lines free of neoplasFc lesions. Metastases carcinomatosae in lymphonodo NO IXII.Microscopic descripOon : 1. Adenocarcinoma tubulare G2. InltraFo carcinomatosa telae adiposae pericolicae. Intensive inammatory inltraFon around the tumour. Incision lines free of neoplasFc lesions. Metastases carcinomatosae in lymphonodo NO IXII.Microscopic descripOon : 1. Adenocarcinoma tubulare G2. InltraFo carcinomatosa telae adiposae pericolicae. Intensive inammatory inltraFon around the tumour. Incision lines free of neoplasFc lesions. Metastases carcinomatosae in lymphonodo NO IXII.Microscopic descripOon : 1. Adenocarcinoma tubulare G2. InltraFo carcinomatosa telae adiposae pericolicae. Intensive inammatory inltraFon around the tumour. Incision lines free of neoplasFc lesions. Metastases carcinomatosae in lymphonodo NO IXII.Microscopic descripOon : 1. Adenocarcinoma tubulare G2. InltraFo carcinomatosa telae adiposae pericolicae. Intensive inammatory inltraFon around the tumour. Incision lines free of neoplasFc lesions. Metastases carcinomatosae in lymphonodo NO IXII.Microscopic descripOon : 1. Adenocarcinoma tubulare G2. InltraFo carcinomatosa telae adiposae pericolicae. Intensive inammatory inltraFon around the tumour. Incision lines free of neoplasFc lesions. Metastases carcinomatosae in lymphonodo NO IXII.Microscopic descripOon : 1. Adenocarcinoma tubulare G2. InltraFo carcinomatosa telae adiposae pericolicae. Intensive inammatory inltraFon around the tumour. Incision lines free of neoplasFc lesions. Metastases carcinomatosae in lymphonodo NO IXII.Microscopic descripOon : 1. Adenocarcinoma tubulare G2. InltraFo carcinomatosa telae adiposae pericolicae. Intensive inammatory inltraFon around the tumour. Incision lines free of neoplasFc lesions. Metastases carcinomatosae in lymphonodo NO IXII.Microscopic descripOon : 1. Adenocarcinoma tubulare G2. InltraFo carcinomatosa telae adiposae pericolicae. Intensive inammatory inltraFon around the tumour. Incision lines free of neoplasFc lesions. Metastases carcinomatosae in lymphonodo NO IXII.Microscopic descripOon : 1. Adenocarcinoma tubulare G2. InltraFo carcinomatosa telae adiposae pericolicae. Intensive inammatory inltraFon around the tumour. Incision lines free of neoplasFc lesions. Metastases carcinomatosae in lymphonodo NO IXII.Microscopic descripOon : 1. Adenocarcinoma tubulare G2. InltraFo carcinomatosa telae adiposae pericolicae. Intensive inammatory inltraFon around the tumour. Incision lines free of neoplasFc lesions. Metastases carcinomatosae in lymphonodo NO IXII.Microscopic descripOon : 1. Adenocarcinoma tubulare G2. InltraFo carcinomatosa telae adiposae pericolicae. Intensive inammatory inltraFon around the tumour. Incision lines free of neoplasFc lesions. Metastases carcinomatosae in lymphonodo NO IXII. Compliance validated by: Compliance validated by: Compliance validated by: Compliance validated by: Compliance validated by: Compliance validated by: Compliance validated by: Compliance validated by: Histopathological Diagnosis: 1. Adenocarcinoma tubulare coli. Tubular adenocarcinoma of the colon. Metastases carcinomatosae in lymphonodo. Cancer metastases in the lymph nodes No IXII. G2, Dukes C, Astler - Coller C2, pT3, pNl.2. AppendiciFs chronica. Chronic appendiciFs.3. Corpus Iuteum haemorrhagicum ovarii. Haemorrhagic corpus luteum of the ovary4. Metastasis carcinomatosa in ovario: adenocarcinoma tubulare cologenes. Cancer metastases into ovary.5. Fragment of brous Fssue with inammatory inltraFon.6. NeoplasFc lesions not detected. CONTACT YOUR DOCTOR WITH THIS REPORT 
PATIENT HISTORY: PRE-OP DIAGNOSIS: Colon cancer, POST-OP DIAGNOSIS: Same, PROCEDURE: Sigmoid colon, resection, FINAL DIAGNOSIS: CoUseiionDate PART 1: BLADDER WALL, EXCISION -OMA EXTENDING TO CAUTERIZED SPECIMEN EDGES. POSITIVE FOR ADENOCARCIN , PARTS 2 AND 4: SIGMOID COLONESNIGTMIAOTIEDDECA66cARCINOMA 4.5 CM INVOLVING COLONIC A. MODERATELY DIFFER  TBSAsIn;,,ERINEURAL INVASION IDENTIFIED. B. RGICAL MARGINS FREE OF CARCINOMA. C. PROXIMAL AND DISTAL SU CE AND AT CAUTERIZED RADIAL EDGE OF SPECIMEN. D. CM1!6:6;R:INETEEN LYMPH NODES 519.  E. PART 3: LEFT PELVIC SIDEWALL, BIONPOSMYA-EXTENDING TO CAUTERIZED SPECIMEN EDGES. pOSITIVE FOR ADENOCARCI , PART 5: OMENTUM, EXCISION- POSITIVE FOR ADENOCARCINOMA. GOMMt:NT: The carcinoma extensively involves the colonic wall, from the mucosa to the pericolic adipose tissue, but no definite precursor lesion is Seen in the colonic mucosa. There is extensive, plaquelie extramuralsubserosa I involvement as well, with areas of serosal penetration and at least one focus where cauterized carcinoma is present at what appears to be the radial andlor mesocolic specimen edge. This corresponds to the operative report describing dense tumor infiltrating the pelvic sidewall over the iliac vess!,ls, through whiCh the surgeon cut. In addition, immunohistochemical stains reveal the carcinoma to be strongly positive for cytokeratin 7 with only focal positivity for cytokeratin 20. CDX2 is completely negative. as are TTF1 and PSA. CEA and cytokeratin 19 are positive. Positive immunostains for the DNA mismatch repair proteins MLH-l, PMS-2, MSH2 and MSH6 reveal preserved nuclear expression. In summary, the overall morphological findings and immunohistochemical profile are not typical of a primary colorectal adenocarcinoma. A possible primary site compatible with the immunomorphologlcal findings is the pancreaticobiliary system. Alternatively, if another potential primary site cannot be found clinically, this could be a primary peritoneal adenocarcinoma with extension into the colonic wall. Finally, the lymph node total includes one lymph node confirmed to be negative for carcinoma by a negative cytokeratin AE1AE3 immunos!ain. 
 SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT SPECIMEN A. Descending colon B. Liver biopsy CLINICAL NOTES PRE- OP DIAGNOSIS: Descending colon cancer. GROSS DESCRIPTION A. Received fresh, subsequently fixed in formalin labeled descending colon is a 21 cm long portion of colon which has a portion of omentum attached. The omentum is 25 x 13 x 4 cm. The omentum is sectioned and palpated to show no discrete gross lesions identified. The ends of the specimen are opened and are arbitrarily inked blue and black. No orientation of the specimen is given. The specimen is partially covered with pink- tan smooth glistening serosa and abundant yellow lobular fat. The specimen shows a 2.7 x 2.7 cm exophytic tumor which is equidistance between either end 5.7 cm. The specimen shows otherwise pink- tan smooth glistening mucosa with normal to abundant folds having an average circumference of 6.5 cm. The cut surface of the tumor shows possible invasion into the muscularis propria, coming within 2 cm of the deep margin. Lymph nodes are grossly identified in the fat. Representative sections of the specimen are submitted as follows: block 1 - representative luminal margins; block 2 - representative section of omentum; blocks 3,4 - full thickness slices of tumor to radial margin tumor to normal; blocks 6- 9 - possible lymph nodes. B. Received fresh, subsequently fixed in formalin labeled liver biopsy are multiple red- brown irregular to cylindrical tissue fragments which have an aggregate measurement of 1.2 x 0.4 x cm. pecimens are entirely submitted in one cassette. MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION AB: Histologic type: Invasive adenocarcinoma, not otherwise specified. Histologic grade: Moderately differentiated. Primary tumor pT: Tumor invades through muscularis propria in two pericolonic fat pT3. Proximal margin: Negative for tumor. Distal margin: Negative for tumor. Circumferential radial margin: Negative for tumor. Distance of tumor from closest margin: 5.7 cm from both proximal and distal margin. Vascular invasion: Not identified. Regional lymph nodes pN: 21 lymph nodes are all negative for metastatic tumor pN0. Non- lymph node pericolonic tumor: Not identified. Distant metastasis pM: Metastatic carcinoma is identified in the liver core biopsy in specimen B pM1. Other findings: The attached omentum is negative for tumor. The background colonic mucosa was unremarkable. The background hepatic parenchyma was fairly unremarkable other than reactive changes to the tumor and some mild steatosis. 5x1, 4x1 DIAGNOSIS A. Colon, descending, segmental resection: Invasive moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma, tumor invades through muscularis propria into pericolonic fat pT3. Twenty one lymph nodes negative for metastatic tumor pN0. Resection margins are negative for tumor. Omentum is negative for tumor. B. Liver, core biopsies: Metastatic adenocarcinoma compatible with origin from colonic primary. --- E nd Of Report --- 
Diagnosis: Resected ileocolic section with an ulcerated colon carcinoma characterized histologically as a moderately differentiated, partly mucinous rectal adenocarcinoma, located 3 cm aborally to Bauhins valve, encircling the intestinal wall at a length of 12 cm. Invasive spreadi of the tumor within all intestinal walls up to the bordering subserous connective tissue and mesocolic fatty tissue. Continuing infiltration to an angular colon section adhering to the tumor. In addition, colon mucous membrane wi th five sessile serrated adenomas. The tumor stage is therefore: pT4 pN0 022 L0, V0; G2 R0. 
IInformed Consen I personally infonned thisthat a specimens would be collected to be used for research purposes. I reviewed theRESEARCH SUBJECT INFORMATION AND CONSENT FORM with the patient and answered any questions the patient had. The patient then signed the consent fonn as a free and voluntary act. A copy of this infonned consent document will be retained at IClinical Informationl Symptoms: Clinical findings: Performance Scale Karnofsky Score: . 1 . . 0 o 100 Asymptomatic 0 80-90 Symptomatic but Fully Ambulatory ,70 SymptomatIc, III bed l:ss than 50 Yo of day o 40-50 in bed more than 50 of but not bed ridden 0 20-30 Bed Ridden , 10 ,.,,t;i:;ii:jJ:,;,r:,;;;; :,:i;;::;;zf:rR R :N: .;; ME, n I ATI ONS:,;. ii;jti,Y ,, :i;J;; ,,; ,,   j Frequency Date mmddyyyy Drug Dose Route   To     To     To     To     To   Current Status TYPE DYES WNO Current Status TYPE DYES fsJINO Current SQttus TYPE DYES jNO o Negative 0 Positive:.   BIT Cell Markers: 2 o Negative 0 Positive:   T flreatment Information Palpable, Non-Dissected lymph Nodes Dissected lymph I. . ,,; ;:lW;,r:.;,JrNEOADJUVEN1THERAPX;ChemrRadiaHon, Jm111unoHrm6tiiltotMolculat?.;L .; DrugTreatment Dose Route Frequencv Date mmddyyyy   To     To     To     To     To   3 Pathology Form ISpecimen Informationl Diseased Diseased Time to LN2 min min L;Wj:iit;:: .. ;;r;:x:::cg, i.:;:i;;JjY,i;i P.ATHQLOGlAL DESCRIPTION;!!;; .. ;, ... .;:C:;; .. ;::,,, ........... , Primarv Tumor Organ Size Extension of Tumor Distance to NAT 1t2h 71; r 10 hfl 7!7;!U:;A DZ--x n x hem ---6 em vi lymph Nobes location  Examined  Metastasized Distant Metastasis Organ Detailed location Size Pathological Staging pT3, Nc Me Stage: .II. Notes: 4 IMicroscopic Descriptionl I  . ,0;;;;,;j,.:,:.j;;;;;,;::,;: ;;i.9;:; r;,.:iJ;;s; HistoIOgicaJPatterll .. . L,  ... ,. . .....;,, ,; ;, .,.!, , .  .,; Cell Distribution  - Structural Pattern  - Diffuse a Streaming Mosaic Storiform Necrosis Fibrosis Lymphocytic Infiltration C Palisading Vascular Invasion Cystic Degeneration Clusterized Bleeding Alveolar Formation Mvxoid Change Indian File PsammomaCalcification :!?;;:?Y2;f::2,::t, .,.;i  . ;jgS!i;;;t:;,:,,;. .,J;;J;f.rCelluIar Differeiltition;;;,f  ,  ,  ,;,. :;. , :;1 ;;:,;i,:;.; .... .,, : Squamous  -Adenomatous  -Sarcomatous  -Lymphomatous  - Squamoid Cell Glandular cell x: Round Cell Large Cell Spindle Cell Cell Stratification Fibroblast Small Cell Keratin Secretion Osteoblast RS CellRS Like Desmosome Intracyt. Vacuole Lipoblast Inflam. Cell Pearl Gland formation r::-Myoblast Plasma Cell Cellular Differentiation: Well Moderate i1 Poor I :i::P1;J.:T,;?;r:,::;;; .. .. .... b,: ;;?:B;::;;i:q: NOciearAppearance:,, . h1:i:!,C,:; .;Et3;, ., , .. Nuclear Atypia: 0 I II III Aniso Nucleosis  Hyperchromatism v Nucleolar Prominent X Multinucleated Giant Cell Y Mitotic Activity C Nuclear Grade: !j;;Tf2 .fiY;:bi:;,:j:;k;: ., :;f;;1ii?;:?;    IH e uata,.;,;.;,1,,j.t.,;1!i, ;tJ;;..A;:!:::;.;Y:;::; ... ;,. . Marker Result Value Date ER o Negative o Positive PR o Negative o Positive Her-2neu o Negative o Positive 8-Cell Marker o Negative o Positive T-Cell Marker o Negative o Positive Other: o Negative o Positive Other: o Negative o Positive Ifinal Pathology Repo Histological Diagnosis:  r!?;ut; cJc; 000;;;, U Yo dJJ;  Grade:  Comments:    T -.:.. - 5 CONSOLIDATED DIAGNOSTIC PATHOLOGY FORM Microscopic Appearance: 1. n  . ISlo oglcai plltlem: CELL DISTRIBUTION  . STRUcrURALPATTERN  . Diffuse . Pl Streaming Mosaic  Storiform Necrosis tr Fibrosis i..ymph91ic Infiltration 1 Palisading Vascular Invasion  Cystic Degeneration Clusterized f. Bleedin2 Alveolar Formation  Myxoid Chan2e Indian File  PsammomaCalcification 2. Cellularlealures: Lymphomatous  -Sarcomatous  -Squamous  -Adenomatous  -Squamoid Cell Glandular cell ?f Round Cell Large Cell IX fibroblast Small Cell SpindJcCeU Cell Stratification Keratin Secretion 7J Osteoblast RS CelllRS Like Desmosome IntraC1. Vacuole J Lipoblast Inflam. Cell Pearl Gland formation J Myoblast Plasma Ceil J-srtf, Per 1-Ph Otherwise Specified: J I l.J-J VI! 7 ;.0  2. Cellular DijJerentiation: I Wps Moderately Poor Nucleot Atv1Jia:  I II UI J. Nuciar Appearance IA f Aniso Nucleosis Hvoerchromatism f Nucleolar Prominent LV Multinucleated Giant Cell Mitotic Activity .: Nuclear Grade r . rvou-f -r fAAxd Lu-I .   CJ t;..; . . I! ;fheUJ ttfUJ 4 DdVU7 Histological DiagnosIs: r -1 . 
TCGA -A6-2670 SPECIMEN A. Sigmoid colon B. Appendix CLINICAL NOTES PRE-OP DIAGNOSIS: Diverticulitis, carcinoma sigmoid colon1 small walled-off perforation. GROSS DESCRIPTION A. Received fresh, subsequently fixed in formalin labeled sigmoid colon is a 21 em. long portion of colon which is stapled at one end inked blue and opened at the opposite end inked black . The serosa of the specimen is pink-tan smooth glistening and predominantly covered with abundant yellow lobular fat. The specimen shows a 4.5 x 3.5 x 0.7 em. portion of fibrous tissue which is slightly hemorrhagic and shows multiple adhesions. This is located 6.5 em. from the inked luminal margin inked blue. The specimen is opened to show a pink-tan smooth glistening mucosa with normal folds having a 4. 7 x 2. 7 x 0. 5 em. tumor Vhich is centrally located. The cut surface of the tumor shov1s invasion into the muscularis propria and into the fat1 coming within 11 em. of the radial margin. The mucosa is pink-tan smooth glistening with normal to slightly dilated folds having an average circumference of 6.0 em. The remainder of the specimen is sectioned to show a fev1 diverticula grossly identified. This is located adjacent to the tumor. No perforations are grossly identified in the area of the adhesions. Lymph nodes are grossly identified in the fat. Representative sections of the specimen are submitted as follows: BLOCK SUMMARY: 1 -representative luminal margins; 2 -possible representative diverticula; 3 and 4 -representative section of hemorrhagic adhesions and possible walled off perforation; 5-7 - representative section of tumor including tumor to normal and tumor to fat; 8 -representative radial margin; 9 -9 possible lymph GROSS DESCRIPTION nodes; 10 - 9 possible lymph nodes; 11 - 3 possible lymph nodes. RS-11 Please note specimen was submitted for tissue procurement. B. Appendix specimen consist of a 6.0 x 0.7 em. grossly unremarkable appendix v1hich is partially covered in pink tan smooth glistening serosa and yellow lobular fat. The specimen is sectioned to show an intact wall an average thickness of 0.3 ern. The specimen lumen ranges from pinpoint to 0.3 em. partially filled with green feces. No discrete gross lesions are identified. Representative sections of the specimen are submitted in one cassette with the proximal endings. RSl. MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION Microscopic sections reveal the presence of an area of granulation tissue with foreign body reaction present in the serosal fat. This is immediately adjacent the invasive carcinoma. It may represent reaction to ruptured acute diverticulitis. There is no residual diverticulum present to substantiate that source. Alternately, the changes might be secondary to perforation of the carcinoma into the free serosal surface. Histologic type: Adenocarcinoma. Histologic grade: Moderately differentiated. Primary tumor pT: Tumor invades through the wall of the colon into the serosal fat pT3. Proximal margin: Negative. Distal margin: Negative. Circumferential radial margin: Negative. Vascular invasion: Negative. MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION Regional lymph nodes pN : 22 mesenteric lymph nodes are free of metastatic carcinoma 022 pNO . Non-lymph node pericolonic tumor: Absent. Distant metastasis pM: Can not be assessed pMX. Other findings: Old abscess site, serosal fat see above. Appendix without significant histopathologic finding. 5, 1 DIAGNOSIS A. Colon, sigmoid, segmental resection: Invasive moderately differentiated colonic adenocarcinoma extending into the serosal fat. Proximal, distal and radial margins of resection are free of tumor. 22 mesenteric lymph nodes negative for metastatic carcinoma 022. Pericolonic focus of foreign body reaction, granulation tissue and chronic inflammation see microscopic description . B. Appendix, incidental appendectomy: No significant histopathologic findings. 
i First Tumor Tumor Site : Ascending Colon Date of Cancer Sample Procurement: Histology : Adenocarcinoma Description of other histology: Grade : Moderately Differentiated A Mucinous : C No i Yes C Yes FocalCUnknown Signet Ring Feature : r No C Yes C Yes FocalC Unknown Histologic Heterogeneity : : No C Yes C Unknown Host Response: None Crohns like reaction c: None C Yes C Unknown Plasma cell rich stroma C No C Yes CUnknown Growth Pattern :  Expansile C Invasive rExpansile - Unknownand Invasive.; Inflammatory Bowel Disease G No C Yes CUnknown Angiolymphatic Invasion : t: No C Yes C Unknown Mutator Phenotype : C No r Yes CUnknown Number of Slides Garland Necrosis present : C: No C Yes C YesFocalC Unknown TIL Cells  HPF .8 Pathologist Comment : serrated adenoma UUID:EDE93B1A-2535 -4D49-9995-DD050CABASD7 TOGA-DM-A280-e1A-PR Redacted III IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIII I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I Ill I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I IIII IIIIIIIIIIIC6-0-3 4 Ca  LA Mucc, Nos Slrt. Qo c cols,-c 8 Criteria Diagnosis Discrepancy Primary Tumor Site Discrepancy HIPAA Discrepancy Prior Malignancy History DualSynchrono Case is circle: Reviewer Initial
Diagnosis  Diagnoses: 22-cm-long resection of the colon under inclusion of a moderately differentiated, centrally ulcerated adenocarcinoma, of a maximum of 3.5 cm in diameter and of the colorectal type, with a recent onset of infiltration of the pericolic fatty tissue pT3; G2, as well as a further poorly differentiated, centrally ulcerated colorectal adenocarcinoma, of a maximum of 1 cm in diameter and with infiltration of the tunica submucosa pT1; G3. Low -grade, also focal high- grade dysplasia synony m: high -grade intra- epithelial neoplasia in the remainder. Tumor -free resection margins of the colon. A follow -up report will be made on the lymph node status. Follow -up report: A total of 39 histologically carcinoma -free lymph nodes of a maximum of 0.8 cm in diameter were determined after acetone fixation. Final tumor stage: pT3 2 pNX 039 pMX; G2 -3 
 SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT SPECIMEN Right colon CLINICAL NOTES PRE- OP DIAGNOSIS: Right colon cancer. GROSS DESCRIPTION Received fresh labeled right colon is a previously unopened, 29 cm. segment of proximal right colon with attached 10 cm. of distal ileum surfaced by smooth to scabrous tan pink serosa with a copious amount of attached mesocolon and mesentery. An unremarkable 6.2 cm. in length, 0.3 cm. in diameter appendix is present. The proximal and distal margins measure 3.2 and 5.6 cm. in circumference respectively. On opening, there is a well circumscribed, 5.2 x 4.0 cm. rubbery pale tan tumor located 3.8 cm. distal to the ileocecal valve. The tumor has the maximal thickness of 1.2 cm., grossly extending into the muscularis propria, to within 0.2 cm. of the inked free radial serosal surface. A portion of tumor and a portion of normal mucosa are submitted for tissue procurement as requested. The ileum and remaining colonic mucosa are unremarkable tan pink with regular folds and the walls average 0.5 cm. in thickness. Several slightly rubbery tan white tissues in keeping with lymph nodes measuring up to 1.4 cm. in greatest dimension are recovered from the attached mesocolon and mesentery. Representative sections are submitted in 12 blocks as labeled. BLOCK SUMMARY: 1 - proximal and distal margins; 2 through 4 - tumor full thickness to inked radial serosal surface black; 5 - tumor to distal normal mucosa; 6 - ICV; 7 - random colon; 8 - appendix; 9 - six whole lymph nodes; 10 - four wh lymph nodes; 11 and 12 - one bisected lymph node per cassette. : MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION Histologic type: Adenocarcinoma Histologic grade: Moderately- differentiated Primary tumor pT2: Carcinoma into, but not completely through, the muscularis propria. Proximaldistalradial margins: Negative. Vascular invasion: Negative. Regional lymph nodes pN: Twelve negative lymph nodes 012. Non- lymph node pericolonic tumor: Not identified. Other findings: appendix with fibrous luminal obliteration; ileum unremarkable. 5 DIAGNOSIS Terminal ileum, cecum, appendix, proximal colon, right hemicolectomy: Adenocarcinoma, moderately- differentiated, with invasion into, but not through, the muscularis propria. Negative margins of excision. Angiolymphatic invasion not identified. Twelve negative lymph nodes 012. --- End Of Report --- 
IInternal Sample Diagnosis: This is a moderately to poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma of the colon G2 to 3 with infiltration of all parietal layers and vascular infiltration LI, VI as well as six lymph node conglomerate metastases 612, N2 and in II a gall bladder preparation with parts of an adenocarcinoma, possibly to be interpreted as a further spread of the colon cancer described. in III parts of the liver with parts of the carcinoma described. -3 ,ncn 47 J0 s Pik o3 cam- C ,Y. 7 3aIi 0UUID:38EA7ED1 -F6E7-442E-9489-744503D3F0E7 TCGA-AA-A02H-01A-PR Redacted III lllllll11111111111111111111111111111Illllllllllllllllll11111 llll IIIIIII IIIII IIIIIIIIIII 111111 IIII IIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII Criteria Di: Frinarv Tuiror SisrepY MIPr.I IisyrrpacV r MaliB Y lisr; CaaI;Si, rvYn UISQUAL:FIEU  rirclej: w wewad: it:als  - I
 SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT  Addendum  .... Clinical Diagnosis  History: Sigmoid colon cancer. Specimens Submitted: 1: SP: Sigmoid colon 2: SP: Distal margin 3: SP:Proximal margin DIAGNOSIS: 1. LARGE BOWEL, SIGMOID; RESECTION: - INVASIVE ADENOCARCINOMA, MODERATELY DIFFERENTIATED. - TUMOR LOCATION: SIGMOID. - TUMOR SIZE: LENGTH IS 5.3 CM, WIDTH IS 5.5 CM AND MAXIMAL THICKNESS IS 1.1 CM. - GROSS CONFIGURATION: ULCERATING INFILTRATIVE. - PREEXISTING POLYP AT THE SITE OF THE CARCINOMA: NOT IDENTIFIED. - TUMOR INVASION: INVASION INTO SUBSEROSA. - GROSS TUMOR PERFORATION: NOT IDENTIFIED. - SEROSAL INVOLVEMENT: NOT IDENTIFIED. - EXTRAMURAL VENOUS INVASION IS IDENTIFIED. - PERINEURAL INVASION IS IDENTIFIED. - SURGICAL MARGINS: FREE OF TUMOR. - POLYPS AWAY FROM THE CARCINOMA: NOT IDENTIFIED. - NON-NEOPLASTIC BOWEL: MELANOSIS COLI. - THE PATHOLOGIC STAGE IS AJCC 2002: pT3 - LYMPH NODES: THE LYMPH NODE STATUS IS AS FOLLOWS EXPRESSED AS THE NUMBER OF METASTATIC NODES IN RELATION TO THE TOTAL NUMBER OF NODES EXAMINED: 014 PEDICLE 1: 012, PEDICLE 2: 02. - THE PATHOLOGIC STAGE IS AJCC 2002: pN0 - THE RESULTS OF IMMUNOHISTOCHEMICAL STAINS FOR MISMATCH REPAIR PROTEINS WILL BE REPORTED IN AN ADDENDUM. 2. COLON, DISTAL MARGIN; EXCISION: - BENIGN SEGMENT OF COLON WITH MELANOSIS COLI. 3. COLON, PROXIMAL MARGIN; EXCISION: - BENIGN SEGMENT OF COLON WITH MELANOSIS COLI.  Continued on next page  ------------------------------------------------------------ Page 2 of 4 I ATTEST THAT THE ABOVE DIAGNOSIS IS BASED UPON MY PERSONAL EXAMINATION OF THE SLIDES ANDOR OTHER MATERIAL, AND THAT I HAVE REVIEWED AND APPROVED THIS REPORT. Gross Description: 1. The specimen is received fresh and is labeled Sigmoid colon. It consists of a 18.2 cm in length and a 5.5 cm in circumference of rectosigmoid colon. The serosa is glistening, smooth, tan-pink. The serosal surface is inked black and the specimen is opened to reveal a 5.3 l x 5.5 w cm, well-circumscribed, centrally cavitated and necrotic, serpiginous bordered, sessile mass, located 9.5 cm from the probable distal margin, occupying the full circumference of the lumen designated Mass 1. Serial sectioning reveals Mass 1 to invade through the muscularis into the pericolonic fat, to a depth of 1.1 cm, which is 2.8 cm from the closest radial margin. In addition, 1.1 cm distal to Mass 1, is a 0.4 l x 0.4 w, well-circumscribed, smooth, homogenous tan nodule, located 3.9 cm away from the distal margin designated Nodule 1. Sectioning reveals Nodule 1 to remain confined to the mucosa. The remaining mucosa is unremarkable. The specimen is submitted for lymph node dissection. Pericolic and peri-rectal adipose tissue is thoroughly examined for lymph nodes, and all possible nodes are submitted. Representative sections are submitted. TPS is submitted for Mass 1. Summary of sections: PM probable proximal margin DM probable distal margin RM -- radial margin M1 Mass 1 N1 -- Nodule 1 M1N1 Mass 1 and Nodule 1 U -- uninvolved mucosa P1 pedicle one lymph nodes BP1 bisected pedicle one lymph nodes P2pedicle two lymph nodes BP2bisected pedicle two lymph nodes 2. The specimen is received in formalin, labeled Distal margin and consists of a ring of pink tan soft tissue measuring 2 x 1.8 x 1 cm. Multiple sutures and staples are attached. The mucosal surface is pink tan and focally hemorrhagic. The sutures and staples are removed and the soft tissue is entirely submitted. Summary of sections: Uundesignated  Continued on next page  ------------------------------------------------------------ Page 3 of 4 3. The specimen is received in formalin, labeled Proximal margin and consists of a silver metal anastomotic pin measuring 7.5 X 2.8 X 1.5 cm. At the center of the pin, a white plastic piece is noted. A ring of pink tan soft tissue is attached measuring 1.5 x 1 cm. The mucosal surface is pink tan and focally hemorrhagic and the serosal surface is pink tan and smooth. Several sutures and staples are noted. The sutures and staples are removed and the soft tissue is entirely submitted. Summary of sections: U--undesignated Summary of Sections: Part 1: SP: Sigmoid colon nyt Block Sect. Site PCs 2 bp1 4 1 DM 3 5 M1 5 1 M1N1 1 1 N1 1 4 p1 12 3 p2 3 1 PM 4 1 RM 1 1 U 2 Part 2: SP: Distal margin nyt Block Sect. Site PCs 1 U 1 Part 3: SP:Proximal margin nyt Block Sect. Site PCs 1 U 1 Addendum Diagnosis Part 1. Results of immunohistochemical staining for DNA mismatch repair proteins are as follows: MLH1: Staining present in tumor  Continued on next page  MSH2: Staining present in tumor MSH6: Staining present in tumor PMS2: Staining present in tumor Conclusion: Immunohistochemical staining for the tested DNA mismatch repair proteins is retained in the tumor. Some of the immunohistochemistry and ISH tests were developed and their performance characteristics were determined by the Department of Pathology. They have not been cleared or approved by the US Food and Drug Administration. The FDA has determined that such clearance or approval is not necessary. These tests are used for clinical purposes. They should not be regarded as investigational or for research. This laboratory is certified under the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments of as qualified to perform high complexity clinical laboratory testing.  End of Report  
 SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT SPECIMEN Right colon, hemicolectomy. CLINICAL NOTES -- GROSS DESCRIPTION The specimen is received unfixed labeled right hemicolectomy and consists of a right hemicolectomy specimen. The right colon measures 14.5 cm in length and up to 6 cm in diameter. There is an attached segment of ileum measuring 16 cm in length and 2.3 cm in diameter. There is a dilated attached vermiform appendix measuring 6.5 cm in length and up to 1.2 cm in diameter. There also are small bubble like structures on the serosal surface of the cecum resembling pneumatosis. There is a fungating mass that appears to originate in the area of the orifice of the appendix. It measures 4.3 x 3.5 cm and is 11 cm from the colonic margin of resection. Sections after fixation and clearing. A portion of the tumor is taken for research purposes. Block summary: 1,2 margins of resection; 3,4 appendix; 5 origin of appendix; 6 serosal vesicles; 7- 11 tumor; 12- 19 lymph nodes. MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION Tumor type: Colonic adenocarcinoma Tumor grade: 2 Tumor size: 4.3 cm Distance to nearest margin: 11 cm Level of penetration: Carcinoma invades through the muscularis propria into pericolonic soft tissue. Margins of resection: Negative for malignancy Vascular invasion: No definite vascular invasion seen Host response: Moderate acute and chronic inflammation Attached lymph nodes: There is no evidence of malignancy in any of 19 lymph nodes. Non- lymph node pericolonic tumor: Absent pTNM Stage: T3 N0 Other findings: Benign serosal mesothlelial cysts. Fibrous obliteration of the distal appendiceal lumen. 5 DIAGNOSIS Colon, right, resection: Moderately differentiated colonic adenocarcinoma Note: Carcinoma invades through the muscularis propria into pericolonic soft tissue. There is no evidence of malignancy in any of 19 pericolonic lymph nodes. --- End Of Report --- 
TCGA  -- Internal Sample ID 7-1 Diagnosis: This is an invasive, moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma of the colon, G 2, with permeation of all wall layers, p T 3, with lymphatic vessel invasion, L 1, otherwise free lymph nodes 0 of 18. Tumor classification: ICD-O-DA M 81403 G 2, pT3,pN0,L2. The resection margins were free. a Gfl a c  nJ o S. gl y 013 S;ti : ?  rAc c4D c s r 9301 UUID:4E846243- 5146-48F3 -A590-A9455C72FeF5 TCGA-AA-A020-e1A-PR Redacted 111 1111111111111111111111111111111111 111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 1111ll 11111III IIIIttIIIlIlIIiIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIlIllhttIIIIIIIIIII 0
Findings and diagnosis relating to the problem : This is an invasive, mucinous adeno carcinoma of the colon, G3, with penetration of all parietal layers pT3 and vascular infiltrates L1, V1 with free resection margins in the mucosa region with a regular mucosa, submucosa and muscularis, as well as mature connective tissue in the deep resection margin area and free lymph nodes, in addition there are tubulovillous adenomas with focally severe dysplasia high -risk intraepithelial neoplasia and omental tissue with reactive lesions . Tumor classification : ICDO -DA-M 81403 G3 pT3, L1, V1, pN0 0 of 13. 
-JNAL DIAGNOSIS: pe RT 1: RIGHT OVARY AND FALLOPIAN TUBE, RIGHT SALPINGO-OOPHORECTOMY - A. B. C. ATROPHIC OVARY WITH OVARIAN FIBROMA, 1.2 CM. FALLOPIAN TUBE WITH MULTIPLE PARATUBAL CYSTS. THERE IS NO EVIDENCE OF MALIGNANCY. ART 2: LEFT OVARY AND FALLOPIAN TUBE, LEFT SALPINGO-OOPHORECTOMY   AZ Ags ATROPHIC OVARY WITH OVARIAN FIBROMATA, 2.8 CM AND 2.0 CM. FALLOPIAN TUBE WITH PARATUBAL CYSTS. THERE S NO EVIDENCE OF MALIGNANCY. A. B. Cc. RT 3: RECTUM, PROCTECTOMY  RECTAL ADENOCARCINOMA, MODERATELY DIFFERENTIATED, 2.5 CM IN GREATEST EXTENT. TUMOR EXTENDS THROUGH THE FULL THICKNESS OF THE MUSCULARIS PROPRIA INTO PERIRECTAL ADIPOSE TISSUE. THE MARGINS OF RESECTION ARE FREE OF MALIGNANCY. EIGHT LYMPH NODES, NO TUMOR SEEN 08. HISTOPATHOLOGIC STAGE: pTNM  T3 NO MX. INCIDENTAL HYPERPLASTIC POLYPS. DIVERTICULAR DISEASE. ART 4: RECTUM, MARGINS, RESECTION  RECTUM, NO TUMOR SEEN. PART 5: COLON, RIGHT, RIGHT HEMICOLECTOMY  ONMOO MPe COLONIC ADENOCARCINOMA, MODERATELY DIFFERENTIATED, 2.5 CM IN GREATEST EXTENT. TUMOR EXTENDS THROUGH THE FULL THICKNESS OF THE MUSCULARIS PROPRIA, INTO PERICOLONIC ADIPOSE TISSUE. THE MARGINS OF RESECTION ARE FREE OF MALIGNANCY. FIVE LYMPH NODES, NO TUMOR SEEN 05. HISTOPATHOLOGIC STAGE: pTNM  T3 NO MX. APPENDIX WITH FIBROUS OBLITERATION OF THE TIP. DIVERTICULAR DISEASE. : PART 6: GALLBLADDER, CHOLECYSTECTOMY  CHRONIC CHOLECYSTITIS AND CHOLELITHIASIS. 
Diagnosis: Left hemicolectomy preparation with a moderately differentiated, invasive adenocarcinoma with infiltration of the pericolic fatty tissue. There is a further tubulovillous adenoma with focal, severe dysplasia synonym: severe intraepithelial neop lasia. The tumor classification of the adenocarcinoma is: G2, pT3 N0 027 L0 V0 R0.
This is a moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma of the sigmoid colon with histopathological grade G2 differentiation, with erosions of the inner tumor surface, with peritumorous, chronic recurrent concomitant inflammation, with tumor infiltration of the parietal layers of the sigmoid colon extending to the outer layers of the tunics muscularis, with chronic lymphadenitis of the tumor-free lymph nodes 012 and tumor-free overview sections from the resection margins and from the region of the vascular ligature.TCGA : Internal Sample ID: Diagnosis: According to these section preparations, the tumor spread of the sigmoid colon carcinoma corresponds to a tumor stage of pT2, pNO, MX, RO. cb-e-3 00vle Cvy rUT  .7Noy VV113 If j,WL1 r cd C 4,?,Li 33Frr Criteria Diagnosis Uicerepancy urimary Tumor She Discrepancy HIPM Diwepancy Prior Malignancy Hiatu Uualtynchrunou fise;I ctrce 0Primary UUID:2S7FBFS7 -SOB1-4405-994D-64EFD1CA4ES7 Ili 11 it l 111 l 11 l lllll l ll l llli UIIIiiii lllillllllll l lllllll 111 11 l lliRedact ed II I I I III I IIII I II II i t lli i liil 11 11 l 11 1 1 11 1 1 11 11 1 1 11 l 111 l 11 1 1 1 11 111III IIIIlIIIIlIiIiIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII1II!11111111iiIll 
iInternal Sample II Diagnosis: This is a metastasis of a poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma in the region of the liver in 1, in II an invasive adenocarcinoma of the colon, moderately differentiated, with infiltration of all parietal layers and vascular infiltration pT3, L l, VI, as well as free resection margins and free lymph nodes pNO Comment: In the preparation of further sections ,two liver metastases were discernible. These lay very close together. Tumor formula: ICDO-DA M-81403 G2 pT3, L1, VI, pN0  0 of 13 ,pMI hepar CD - 0 -3 n!U s  SF d 3 Co lam -  c UUID:18C139E3 -62C0-4D98-8D1B-BA412EE9BEIE TCGA-AA-A023-01A-PR Redacted III IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII11111IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII1111111III IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII111IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII1111IIIIIIIIIIIIIII11 IIII1111111 IIIIIIIIIIIIIIII111 IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII Dia o is tsc .:fry Pn.arv ToniorrSite Uisc.rpanry . H!PM. Discrepancy Pri..r MalionarW FobnY
UUID:FEE2A033-7EE5-4528-80AF-979BD2FDCBF9 TCGA-A6-A56B-01A-PRRedacted   II IM III I II I I II II I I II I II II I II I I II I II I II I II I I III I I II IIII III I I I IIIIII 111111111111111 liiiillIllIlIlli 11111IIIIIIIIII1111111III IllJIllIlIlIllI IIlIllIllIllIlI1111111111111111111,1111111IIIIUSI L4l g. j-73 9--fD SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT SPECIMEN A.Sigmoid colon B.Distal margin CLINICAL NOTES GROSS DESCRIPTION A.Received fresh, then fixed in formalin, labeled sigmoid colon, is an 18 cm. long portion of colon, opened at one end inked blue and stapled at the opposite end inked black. The specimen is partially covered with pink-tan, smooth and glistening serosa. Externally, there is a focus of adhesions, 4 x 3 cm., located 3.5 cm. from the nearest luminal margin inked black. The mucosa is pink-tan, smooth and glistening, with normal to abundant folds, and average circumference of 6 cm. There is a 4 x 3.5 cm. ulcerated tumor, 3.5 cm. from the nearest luminal margin inked black, and contiguous with the focus of serosal adhesions. This focus of adhesion is inked blue. The tumor shows gross invasion into the muscularis propria, and appears to penetrate through the fat, to within 0.3 cm. of the surgical margin of the adhesion. The focus of the radial margin is grossly unremarkable. The remainder of the mucosa is pink-tan, smooth and glistening, with two polypoid lesions, 0.3 cm. in greatest dimension, located within 2 cm. of the black inked margin and 5.5 cm. of the blue inked margin. These show no gross invasion. Lymph nodes are identified in the fat. Representative sections of the specimen are submitted as follows: BLOCK SUMMARY: 1- Representative luminal margins; 2 - polyps, full thickness; 3-5 - representative sections of tumor, including representative to normal and representative to surgical margin; 6 - six possible lymph nodes, with representative cross sections of vasculature; 7 - nine lymph nodes; 8 - seven lymph nodes; 9 - three lymph nodes. RS-9 B.Received in formalin, labeled distal margin, is a 1.5 cm. long portion of annular tissue, which is stapled at one end and opened at the opposite end. The staples are irregular. The staples are removed and the remainder of the specimen is entirely submitted in one cassette. AS-1 MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION Histologic type: Adenocarcinoma Sigmoid colon. Histologic grade: Moderately-differentiated. Primary tumor: carcinoma penetrates through muscularis propria, but does not reach serosal surface pT3. Margins Proximal, Distal, Radial: Negative. Distance of tumor from closest margin: 1.5 cm radial Vascular invasion: Not identified. Immunostains for CD34, CD31, and desmin performed to exclude large vessel invasion, along with an elastic stain. Regional lymph nodes pNl: Carcinoma present in 3 of 25 lymph nodes 325. Non-lymph node pericolonic tumor: Not identified.Other findings: Hyperplastic polyps 2. Comment: portions of this case lymph nodes were reviewed with A few of the antibodies used in our laboratory may be classified as analyte specific reagents. These antibodies are monitored and controlled in our laboratory and their performance for in vitro diagnosis is well described in the medical literature. They have not been cleared or approved by the FDA. DIAGNOSIS A.Colon, Sigmoid, Segmental resection: Adenocarcinoma, moderately-differentiated. Carcinoma penetrates through muscularis propria, but does not reach the serosal surface. Margins of excision negative. Carcinoma is present in three of twenty-five lymph nodes 325. B.Colon, Distal Margin, Segmental Resection: No malignancy identified. --- End Of Report --- Pl li lat :iSCi a 6aY HIPAA 01- ar03l Case is, tl ,!cit: e iie:ed: - -s --n
 Pathology Report TGGA-GK-4947 ..,.,Cbcr-.-..H.::-1..-, .. H--- -- o -! P ... ,, ,.,,  ,. F I --,,-;,.,  ;, O Accession Number: Report Status: Final Type: Surgical Patholoqy Pathology Report COLON, SEGMENTAL RESECT FOR TUMOR Accessioned On: - . DIAGNOSIS: SPECIMEN LABELED SIGMOID COLON 14.5 em: ADENOCARCINOMA OF THE COLON, moderately differentiated  4.0 em in greatest dimension. The tumor invades through the muscularis propria into pericolonic adipose tissue and is present at the serosal surfae. Lymphovascular invasion is not present. Non-neoplastic colonic mucosa with no significant pathologic change. Proximal resection margin is free of carcinoma. METASTATIC CARCINOMA in three 3 of twelve 12 lymph nodes. SPECIMEN LABELED DISTAL COLON WITH NARGIN: Distal resection margin is free of carcinoma. AJCC staginq: T4 N1 Mx CLINICAL DATA: History: Colon CA invading L ureter for palliative resection. Operation: Sigmoid olectomy, left ureterolysis -frozen section. Clinical Diagnosis: Sigmoid colon cancer, left ureteral stricture. TISSUE SUBMITTED: 1. Sigmoid colon -open end is distal. 2. Distal colon with margin. O.R. CONSULTATION: 3?lCIMEN LABELED 1 SIGMOID COLON -OPEN END IS DISTAL GROSS ONLY : Circumferential lesion consistent with adenocarcinoma. The proximal and distal margins are free of carcinoma. GROSS DESCRIPTION: The specimen is received in two separate containers, each labeled with the patients name and medical record number. Part one is designated sigmoid colon open end is distal. The specimen consists of a single segment of colon 14.5 em length x 3 em diameter with attached fat and mesentery 6.5 em in maximum diameter. Distal resection margin is 2.3 em. Proximal resection margin is 2.2 em. There is a circumferential mass that measures 4 x 3 x 1.8 em, appears grossly to invade through full thickness and causes serosal puckering. This mass is present 4.5 em to distal resection margin and 4 em to proximal resection margin. Representative sections are taken for tumor bank. Representative sections are submitted for histologic evaluation. Micro Micro Micro Micro Micro Micro Micro 1-3: 4: 5: 6: 7: 8: 9: tumor at area of deepest invasion, 3 frags, tumor towards distal margin, 1 frag, tumor towards proximal resection margin, 1 frag, proximal resection margin, en face, 2 frags, distal resection margin, 1 frag, 3 potential lymph nodes, 3 frags, 4 potential lymph nodes, 4 frags, Part two, received designated distal colon with margin11 The specimen consists of a single portion of colon 1 em length x 3 em diameter . Stapled resection margin measures 4 em in length. Resection margin is inked in black. Micro 10: stapled resection margin, en face, 2 frags, Reports to: SfECIMEN TYPE: COLON1 SEGMENTAL RESECT FOR TUMOR ADDITIONAL SPECIMEN TYPE: SURGICAL MARGIN Page: 1 of I 1 t 2 
Diagnosis: Right hemicolectomy preparation with an ulcerated colon carcinoma characterized histologically as a moderately differentiated, partially mucinous, colorectal adenocarcinoma, located 11.5 cm aborally to Bauhins valve, and encircling the colon wa ll at a length of 3.5 cm. Invasive spread of the tumor within all intestinal wall layers up to the bordering mesocolic fatty tissue. Oral and aboral resection margin and greater omentum are tumor -free. Appendix with clear post -inflammatory fibrosis of the wall. Therefore the tumor stage is pT3, pN1 224 L0 V0; G2 R0 
 SPECIMENS: A. RIGHT AND TRANSVERSE COLON SPECIMENS: A. RIGHT AND TRANSVERSE COLON GROSS DESCRIPTION: A. RIGHT AND TRANSVERSE COLON Received fresh and labeled right transverse colon, it consists of a right hemicolectomy with a portion of terminal ileum. The segment of terminal ileum measures 7.0 cm in length. The right colon measures 33.0 cm in length. The proximal ileal surgical margin measures 3.5 cm in circumference, and the distal colonic surgical margin measures 8.0 cm in circumference. An appendix is identified and measures 5.5 cm in length x 0.6 cm in width. Upon opening the specimen, a tumor mass is identified, located 7.0 cm from the distal surgical margin. This mass is tan colored, measures 4.0 x 4.0 x 1.1 cm and has heaped-up edges around its periphery, without obvious central ulceration. In addition to the primary mass, there are several minute 0.2 to 0.4 cm in diameter polypoid lesions, 3- 4 in the proximal ascending colon proximal to the primary mass and 1 in the distal aspect of the specimen distal to the tumor mass. No other mucosal lesions are identified. Portions of the primary tumor mass and representative normal colon are procured. Summary of sections: A1: Proximal surgical margin A2: Distal surgical margin A3-A9: Primary tumor mass, blocked out and submitted entirely A10: Additional subserosal fat subjacent to primary mass A11: Representative terminal ileum A12: Representative cecum A13: Representative proximal colon with polypoid lesion A14: Representative distal colon with polypoid lesion A15: Appendix base and mid- portion A16: Appendix tip A17-A21: Each have one lymph node, bisected A22: Two lymph nodes, each bisected one is inked black A23: Six possible lymph nodes A24: Four possible lymph nodes A25: Six possible lymph nodes A26: One lymph node, bisected DIAGNOSIS: A. COLON, RIGHT AND TRANSVERSE, RESECTION: - INVASIVE ADENOCARCINOMA, WITH MUCINOUS FEATURES, MODERATELY DIFFERENTIATED. - 4.0 CM IN GREATEST DIMENSION. - 4.0 X 1.1 CM IN ADDITIONAL DI MENSIONS. - INVADING INTO THE SUBSEROSA. - THE PROXIMAL, DISTAL, AND RADIAL MARGINS ARE NEGATIVE FOR TUMOR. - ANGIOLYMPHATIC INVASION IS PRESENT. - NO PERINEURAL INVASION IDENTIFIED. - ASSOCIATED WITH ADENOMATOUS CHANGE. - TUBULAR ADENOMAS ARE PRESENT AWAY FROM THE TUMOR. - APPENDIX WITH NO HISTOPATHOLOGICAL ABNORMALITIES. - NO MALIGNANCY IDENTIFIED IN SEVENTEEN LYMPH NODES 017. SYNOPTIC REPORT - COLON  RECTUM Specimens Involved Specimens: A: RIGHT AND TRANSVERSE COLON Specimen Type: Right hemicolect omy Tumor Site: Right ascending colon Tumor Configuration: Infiltrative Tumor size: 4cm Additional dimensions 4cm x 1.1cm WHO Classification Adenocarcinoma 81403 Histologic Grade: G2: Moderately differentiated Extent of Invasion: Subserosa Margins: Margins uninvolved by invasive carcinoma Proximal, Distal, Radial VenousLymphatic Invasion: Present Perineural Invasion: Absent Additional Pathologic Findings: None identified Extent of Resection: R0: Complete resection with grossly and microscopically negative margins Lymph Nodes: Negative 0  17 Implants: Absent Pathological Staging pTNM: pT 3 N 0 M X CLINICAL HISTORY: None given PRE-OPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: Colon ca 
 .... Clinical Diagnosis  History: with , colonoscopy on showed 3cm semi-circumferential mass 10cm from ileocecal valve, cecal adenocarcinoma. Specimens Submitted: 1: SP:Right colon; hemicolectomy DIAGNOSIS: 1. SP:Right colon; hemicolectomy: Tumor Type: Adenocarcinoma with mucinous features 50 mucinous component Histologic Grade: Moderately differentiated Tumor Location: Ascending colon Tumor Size: Length is 2.1 cm Width is 2.8 cm Maximal thickness is 0.4 cm Tumor Budding: Absent Increased Tumor Infiltrating Lymphocytes: Absent Precursor Lesions: Tubular adenoma Deepest Tumor Invasion: Subserosal adipose tissue andor mesenteric fat Gross Tumor Perforation: Not identified Lymphovascular Invasion: Identified Large Venous Invasion: Not Identified Perineural Invasion: Not identified Surgical Margins: Free of tumor PolypsMucosa Dysplasia away from the carcinoma: Not Identified  Continued on next page  Non-Neoplastic Bowel: Unremarkable Appendix: Unremarkable Lymph Nodes: Number with metastasis: 0 Total number examined: 31 Tumor deposits in pericolorectal soft tissue: Not Identified Tumor Staging AJCC 7th Edition: pT3 Tumor invades through the muscularis propria into pericolorectal tissues Lymph Node Stage AJCC 7th Edition: N0 No regional lymph node metastasis -------------------------------------------------------- I ATTEST THAT THE ABOVE DIAGNOSIS IS BASED UPON MY PERSONAL EXAMINATION OF THE SLIDES ANDOR OTHER MATERIAL, AND THAT I HAVE REVIEWED AND APPROVED THIS REPORT. 1. The specimen is received fresh, labeled Right colon and consists of a segment of terminal ileum, cecum with attached appendix and ascending colon. The terminal ileum measures 12.0 cm in length and 3.6 cm in circumference at the proximal resected margin. The remaining colon measures 14.0 in length with a circumference of 5.4 cm at the distal resected margin. The attached appendix measures 5.8 cm in length and averages 0.7 cm in diameter. The appendiceal and intestinal serosa is pink tan and smooth. Focally hemorrhagic lobulated yellow tan adipose tissue spans the length of the specimen measuring up to the 3.8 cm in thickness. The specimen is opened to reveal a mass lesion measuring 2.1 cm in length and 2.8 cm in width. The mass is located in the right colon, 3.8 cm distal to the ileocecal valve, 17.0 cm from the proximal margin and 6.5 cm from the distal margin. Sectioning shows that the tumor invades the underlying muscularis. The depth of invasion is 0.5 cm grossly. The remaining mucosa is remarkable for a 0.7 x 0.1 to 0.4 cm sessile polyp 1.0 cm distal to the tumor. The attached adipose tissue is thoroughly examined and all identified lymph nodes are submitted. Representative sections of the specimen are submitted for permanent sections and for TPS. Summary of sections: P - proximal margin shave D - distal margin shave T - tumor A - appendix representative sections  Continued on next page  ------------------------------------------------------------ Page 3 of 3 PL-polyp RS -repre.entative .ectiona LN -lymph node. BLN -bi.ected lymph node. ry of Sectiona, Part 1, SP,Right colon; hemicolectomy Block Sect. Site C. , A , D ,  ,  , , , L , ., , T  Bnd of Report  , , ,  , , , , 
UUID:F323F54C -A86A-47D8-A26D-7541CS54A08E TCGA-DM-A0X9-01A-PRRedacted III II II I III 111 I IIIII I III X111111111 IIIJIlIIllIIIIII I II1111 III III IIIIII 11111111111111111111111IIII11111111111II1111I11111I1111111111 III 11111I111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111III I III TSS Patient ID: Sample Procurement: Date: Gender: Date of Birth: Vital Status: Date of Death: Race :White Ethnicity: Not Hispanic or Latino Specific Ethnicity: Histologic Subtype: Colon adenocarcinoma Date of Initial Path Dx: Primary Site :Colons Anatomic Site: Ascending Colon T Stage: 3 N Stage: 0 M Stage: 0 Overall Stage: IIA Date of Normal Procurement: 0S QA G. -   Cola  Criteria Diagnosis Discrepancy Primary Tumor Site Discrepancy HIPAA Discrepancy Prior Malignanc y History DualSynrhronut P ma ote Case is circle: QUA Reviewer Initials 1YO13 Yes d IReviewed:II I Date0 lY
 SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT .... Clinical Diagnosis  History: Sigmoid cancer  25cm anterior resection. Specimens Submitted: 1: Sigmoid colon 2: Proximal ring 3: Distal ring DIAGNOSIS: 1. Sigmoid colon: Tumor Type: Adenocarcinoma Histologic Grade: Moderately differentiated Tumor Location: Sigmoid colon Tumor Size: Length is 2.8 cm Width is 6.5 cm Maximal thickness is 0.7 cm Tumor Budding: Focal Increased Tumor Infiltrating Lymphocytes: Absent Precursor Lesions: Not identified Deepest Tumor Invasion: Subserosal adipose tissue andor mesenteric fat Gross Tumor Perforation: Not identified Lymphovascular Invasion: Not identified Large Venous Invasion: Not Identified Perineural Invasion: Not identified Surgical Margins: Free of tumor PolypsMucosa Dysplasia away from the carcinoma: Not Identified  Continued on next page  ------------------------------------------------------------ Page 2 of 4 Non-Neoplastic Bowel: Unremarkable Lymph Nodes: Number with metastasis: 0 Total number examined: 21 Tumor deposits in pericolorectal soft tissue: Not Identified Tumor Staging AJCC 7th Edition: pT3 Tumor invades through the muscularis propria into pericolorectal tissues Lymph Node Stage AJCC 7th Edition: N0 No regional lymph node metastasis -------------------------------------------------------- 2. Colon, proximal ring excision: - Colonic mucosa with hyperplastic features. - No tumor seen. 3. Colon, distal ring. excision: - Colonic mucosa with hyperplastic features. - No tumor seen. I ATTEST THAT THE ABOVE DIAGNOSIS IS BASED UPON MY PERSONAL EXAMINATION OF THE SLIDES ANDOR OTHER MATERIAL, AND THAT I HAVE REVIEWED AND APPROVED THIS REPORT. Gross Description: 1. The specimen is received fresh and is labeled Sigmoid colon. It consists of a portion of sigmoid colon that measures 18.5cm in length x 10.0 cm in open circumference at the distal margin. The serosal surface is pink tan and unremarkable. The radial resection margin is inked black and the specimen is opened to reveal a tumor that is located 9.0 cm from the proximal margin and 6.0 cm from the distal margin. The tumor measures 2.8 cm in length and 6.5 cm in width. Serial sectioning reveals tumor extending to a depth of 0.7 cm, through the muscularis and grossly approaching into the underlying pericolic fat. The tumor is 4.0 cm from the closest radial margin. The remaining mucosa shows tan-yellow grossly unremarkable mucosal folds. Pericolic and peri-rectal adipose tissue is thoroughly examined for lymph nodes, and all possible nodes are submitted. Representative sections are submitted. TPS is submitted. Summary of sections: PM - proximal margin DM - distal margin RM - radial margin  Continued on next page  ------------------------------------------------------------ Page 3 of 4 T - tumor RS - uninvolved mucosa LN - lymph nodes BLN - bisected lymph node 2. The specimen is received in formalin, labeled Proximal margin and consists of a silver metal anastomotic pin measuring 7.5 X 2.8 X 1.5 cm. At the center of the pin, a green plastic piece is noted. A ring of pink tan soft tissue is attached measuring 2.5 x 1.6 x 1.0 cm. The mucosal surface is pink tan and focally hemorrhagic and the serosal surface is pink tan and smooth. Several sutures and staples are noted. The sutures and staples are removed and the soft tissue is entirely submitted. Summary of sections: U - undesignated . 3. The specimen is received in formalin, labeled Distal ring and consists of a ring of pink tan soft tissue measuring 2.8 x 1.6 x 1.1 cm. Multiple sutures and staples are attached. The mucosal surface is pink tan and focally hemorrhagic. The sutures and staples are removed and the soft tissue is entirely submitted. Summary of sections: U - undesignated Summary of Sections: Part 1: Sigmoid colon Block Sect. Site PCs 6 BLN 11 3 DM 3 4 LN 15 2 PM 2 1 RM 1 2 RS 2 3 T 3 Part 2: Proximal ring Block Sect. Site PCs 3 U 5 Part 3: Distal ring Block Sect. Site PCs 3 U 6  Continued on next page  ------------------------------------------------------------ Page 4 of 4  End of Report  
 CGA-A6-2682 A. Right colon B. Apical lymph node CLINICAL NOTES PRE-OP DIAGNOSIS: Ascending colon cancer GROSS DESCRIPTION X a 16 to 8 A. Received fresh for tissue procurement labeled 11right colon is a 35 em. segment of proximal right colon with attached 48 em. of distal ileum surfaced by smooth to scabrous tan-pink serosa with a copious amount of attached mesocolon, mesentery, and unremarkable omentum. An appendix is not identified grossly. The proximal and distal margins measure 3.8 and 6.2 em. in circumference respectively. The proximal 10 em. of ileum is adhesed to the cecal pouch, which on opening, contains a circumferential 9 5. 5 em. rubbery tan-v1hite tumor mass. On sectioning, the tumor has maximal thickness of 3.5 em., grossly extending through the muscularis to within 0.2 em. of the inked free radial serosal surface. The mucosa throughout the remainder of the ileum and colonic segment is unremarkable glistening tan-pink with regular folds and the walls average 0.5 ern. in thickness. No additional abnormalities are noted. A portion is taken for tissue procurement as requested. Several soft tan-pink to rubbery tan-white tissues in keeping with lymph nodes measuring up to 2 ern. in greatest dimension are recovered from the attached mesentery and mesocolon. Representative sections are submitted in 16 blocks as labeled. RS- BLOCK SUMMARY: 1 -proximal and distal margins; 2 -tumor vlith adhesed portion of ileumi 3 and 4, 5 and 6 -tumor full thickness inked free radial serosal surface black -points of continuity inked orange and green respectively; 7 -tumor to proximal mucosa; -tumor to distal mucosa; 9 -random ileum; 10 -random colon; 11 - GROSS DESCRIPTION 2 whole lymph nodes; 12 - 6 Vhole lymph nodes; 13-15 - 1 bisected lymph node per cassette; 16 -1 representative section from each of 2 grossly positive lymph nodes. B. Received fresh labeled apical lymph node is a 0.6 x 0.35 x 0.2 em. fragment of soft to slightly rubbery glistening to chalky golden yellow adipose tissue. A definitive lymphoid tissue is not recovered. The specimen is submitted in toto in one block. AS-1. MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION Histologic type: Adenocarcinoma, not otherwise specified. Histologic grade: Moderately differentiated. Primary tumor pT: Tumor invades through the entire colonic wall into the adhesed section of ileum into the muscularis propria of the ileum, through the muscularis propria and into the submucosa of the ileum. This is shown in slide A2 pT4b. Proximal margin: Negative for tumor. Distal margin: Negative for tumor. Circumferential radial margin: Not applicable. Distance of tumor from closest margin: 10 em from the ileal margin. Vascular invasion: Prominent lymphatic and venous space invasion is identified. Regional lymph nodes pN: 2 of 13 lymph nodes are positive for metastatic carcinoma pNl. Non-lymph node pericolonic tumor: Focally present in the mesenteric fat bet,-1een the ileum and colon. Distant metastasis pM : Cannot evaluate pMx. Other findings: None. HICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION 5x1,3260F DIAGNOSIS Colon, right, ileocolectomy: Invasive, moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma, invasive through the entire right colonic wall and through the visceral peritoneum into the wall of the adhesed ileum pT4bl . t1etastatic adenocarcinoma present in 2 of 13 lymph nodes pNl. The resection margins are negative for carcinoma. Prominent lymphatic and venous space invasion is identified. 
UUID:02679879-7287-4515 -9496-81FCE87C8571 TCGA-A6-A566-01A-PRRedacted II I II II I III 111 I I II I I II I II II I II I I II I II I II I II I I III I I II IN IN I I IIIIII II I II11111 II11II111111IIIIIIIII II IlIl111111111111111111III III1111111111111111IIIIII1II1IIIIIIIIIIII1111111111IillIIIjc-6 --o-3 Ns SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT SPECIMEN A. Apical lymph node B. Left hemicolectomy, left nephrectomy, distal pancreas, spleen, proximal jejunum C. Appendix CLINICAL NOTES CLINICAL HISTORY: Carcinoma descending colon invading hilum left kidney, distal pancreas, segment of jejunum. GROSS DESCRIPTION A. The specimen is Received in formalin, labeled apical lymph node and consists of a piece of tan and yellow tissue measuring 1.2 x 1 x 0.4 cm. bisected AS-1 after fixation. AS-l. B.The specimen is received unfixed labeled left hemicolectomy, left nephrectomy, distal pancreas, spleen, proximal jejunum and consists of a complex specimen comprising kidney measuring 11 x 7.5 x 5.3 cm., spleen measuring 14 x 7 x 5 cm. and adherent bowel. The bowel measures 33 cm. in length and has stapled margin. There is some omentum on the specimen and there is a small amount of pericolonic fat. There are no palpable nodes in the pericolonic fat. There is an adherent segment of bowel centrally that might represent small bowel that measures 8 cm. in length and 4 cm. from diameter. The small segment of bowel that looks like it might be adherent to small bowel has fungating tumor centrally. The central tumor mass is adherent to the small bowel and kidney, measures 6.5 cm. in diameter by external palpation of his roughly spherical. A portion of tumor and normal colon are taken for research purposes. Sections through the tumor taken after fixation show carcinoma invading the lower pole of the kidney and a portion of pancreas measuring 7 x 3 x 2 cm. BLOCK SUMMARY: Bi, 2 - Colonic and small bowel margins of resection; B3 - 7 - colonic tumor; B8, 9 - pancreas; 810, 11 - spleen; B12 - 15 - kidney and ureter; B16 - 18 - pericolonic lymph nodes. C.The specimen is Received in formalin, labeled appendix and consists of a tan vermiform appendix measuring 4.7 cm. in length and 0.5 cm. in diameter. The appendix measures 5 x 1.2 x 0.7 cm. AS-2 The tip of the appendix and the proximal end are in block 1. Sections after fixation. MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION A.A single lymph node is negative for malignancy. B.Tumor type: Colonic adenocarcinoma with areas of mucinous differentiation Tumor grade: 2 out of 3 Tumor size: 7 cm. Distance to nearest margin: 14 cm.Level of penetration: Carcinoma penetrates through the muscularis propria of the colon into adjacent pancreas and kidney. Margins of resection: Negative for malignancy Vascular invasion: There are areas suspicious for lymphatic invasion in pericolonic soft tissue. Host response: Mild chronic inflammation Attached lymph nodes: Metastatic carcinoma is present in two of thirteen lymph nodes. The largest metastasis is 0.7 cm. in dimension. pTNM Stage: T4 Nl Other findings: Sections of pancreas, spleen and kidney are otherwise unremarkable. The spleen is not involved by the tumor. C.Sections of appendix are unremarkable. DIAGNOSIS A.Apical lymph node, biopsy: A single lymph node is negative for malignancy. B.Left colon, left kidney, distal pancreas, spleen, proximal jejunum, resection: Moderately differentiated colonic adenocarcinoma. Note: Carcinoma invades into the adjacent jejunum, kidney and pancreas. Metastatic carcinoma is present in two of thirteen pericolonic lymph nodes. C.Vermiform appendix, resection: No pathological diagnosis. --- End Of Report --- pi..gnosis DrurcDncY Prim a,V Lmo Site s- -I!Fpany !1iPM Ui: Pr:or Ma igna -Y kiistnr2,
For Collection of Cancerous Tissue I personally infonned this a specimens would be collected to be used for research purposes. I reviewed the RESEARCH SUBJECT INFORMATION AND CONSENT FORM with the patient answered any questions the patient had. The patient then signed the consent fonn as a free and voluntary act. A copy of . our institution. Name of Physician or Study Coordinator Signature Date IClinical Informationl Chief Complaints: J b  s!JlPtoms: AJ eA crWk-lJ  5 Clinical Findings: Performance Scale Karnofsky Score: . . 0 o 100 Asymptomatic 0 80-90 Symptomatic but Fully Ambulatory 0 60-?0 Symptomatic, III bed less than 50 Yo of day 40-50 in bed more than 50 of but not bed rIdden 020-30 Bed Ridden ...  .. ::.1::; .. , .: . ::;:.:,? ..;;.:;,f . t;::;!l,i:J,;, :.::;:;CURRENTMED I CATIONS  .. : .:i. ............ : . :f ..  ......  Drug Dose Route Frequencv Date mmddyyyy   To I    To    I To     To I  I  To I I , . ... ., PAST MEDICAL HISTORY ., . . : ........ DiaanosisDiseaseDisorderIniurv DiaQnosis Date Treatment Status Relative Diagnosis o Positive:,   BIT Cell Markers: 2 Age of Diagnosis o Negative 0 Positive:,   Preo erative Clinical Dia nosis Location of Sus ected Involved L m h Nodes Location of Sus ected Distant Metastasis .. .... a ..  .. Stage: ZiZ 5 I flreatment Informationl Palpable, Non-Dissected ph Nodes Dissected lymph Nodes Distant Metastasis jD ;T;,;?; NEOADJUVEN1.hTHERAPYcnemo, Radiati6n;tfrUnunQHormonal,irMoleCidar: . , . , . , .  DrugTreatment Dose Route frequency Date mmddyyyy   To   I  To     To     To  I I  To   3 Collected by: Preserved by: Pathology Form ISpecimen Informationl  Date:  Date BloodSerumlPlasma Diseased Normal TimetoLN2 min min . . .  .. c::.r: fiif:; .. :,i .;:: ,t!; :;::c ; f:;, PATHLOGIC:AL,;DES;RIP1tION4:tj  .. .i. .:;;.  bt:,::;;i: . i Primal Tumor ; Organ Size Extension of Tumor Distance to NT G?hfi ;tu 5 4x3em 6YI , b . .J em Lymph Nodes v location  Examined  Metastasized A .,-,4. .-7? J::-U  u Distant Metastasis Organ Detailed location Size Pathological Staging . pTJ N,t Mo Stage: PL Notes: Lt 1iS C.M1S hJ1Y. 2   rZtLe- lAZVe 4 Microscopic Appearance: C PATHOLOGY FORM . . IS 0 ogla r Pattern: J Ht1l  f CELL DISTRIBUTION  - STRUCTURAL PATTERN  Diffuse X - Mosaic Streaming  Storifonn Necrosis t Fibrosis Lymphocytic Infiltration  Palisading Vascular Invasion l Cystic Deeneration Clusterized  Bleeding Alveolar Fonnation Q Myxoid Change Indian File t PsammomaCalcification 2. Cellularftaturn: scluamous  -AdenolDatous  -Sarcomatous  -LYIDPholDatous  -Jquamoid Cell Glandular cell . Round Cell I..argeCeU Spindle Cell Cell Stratification 7 fibroblast Small Cell Keratin Secretion , Osteoblast RS CeIJRS Like Desmosome Intracyt. Vacuole  Lipoblast Inflam. Cell Pearl Gland formation . Myoblast Plasma Cell Orherwise Specified: Dl lfrrfo Ol.. 9tJ7r p Pa rr-z ,AJ.t?..c A - 2. Cellular Digenntiation: I Well Poor J. Nuclear Atypia: Nuclnr Appearanft 0 I II III Aniso NucJeosis Y Hyperchromatism yo Nucleolar Prominent bt A Multinucleated Giant Cell IX Mitotic ActivitY tf NuclnrGnde INTEGRATED REPORT OF RNDINGS BY CONTRIBUTOR I7HUUIf.;U;7, STAFF FOR RESEARCH USE ONLY. 
 SPECIMENS: A. RIGHT COLON SPECIMENS: A. RIGHT COLON GROSS DESCRIPTION: A. RIGHT COLON Received fresh is a right hemicolectomy specimen consisting of a segment of large intestine measuring 22 x 8.5 cm circumference and portion of distal ileum measuring 1 x 3.2 cm circumference. No appendix is seen grossly. The large intestine contains an exophytic tumor measuring 3.9 x 3.2 x 0.5 cm and located 4.5 cm from the ileocecal valve. The serosal surface corresponding to tumor area is inked black. The tumor appears to invade muscularis propria grossly. The ileocecal valve mucosa has a slightly sessile polypoid granular area; this area measures 2.0 x 2.0 x 1.3 cm. There is another possible polyp located 4.8 cm from the first polyp and is located 3.1 cm di stally from the tumor; this polyp measures 2.0 x 1.5 x 0.4 cm. The pericolic fat is submitted in O -fix for overnight fixation; multiple lymph nodes are found, they range from 0.1 to 0.5 cm in diameter. A portion of the tumor is submitted for tissue procurement. Representative sections are submitted in A1 distal margin, shaved section, A2-A3 ileocecal valve granular area, A4-A12 entire tumor, A13 another polyp toward the distal margin, A14-A15 random mucosa, A16-A40 lymph nodes, and A41 proxi mal margin, shaved section. DIAGNOSIS: A. COLON, RIGHT, HEMICOLECTOMY: - INVASIVE MODERATELY TO POORLY DIFFERENTIATED ADENOCARCINOMA INVADING SUBSEROSA - TUMOR SIZE 3.9 X 3.2 X 0.5 CM - METASTATIC CARCINOMA TO ONE OUT OF THIRTY SEVEN LYMPH NODES 137. THE INVOLVED LYMPH NODE SIZE 0.4 CM AND LOCATED IN PERICOLIC FAT UNDERLYING THE INVASIVE CARCINOMA - SURGICAL MARGINS NEGATIVE FOR CARCINOMA - MULTIPLE TUBULAR ADENOMAS LOCATED AT THE ILEOCECAL VALVE AND ADJACENT TO THE INVASIVE CARCINOMA - HYPERPLAST IC POLYP - SEE SYNOPTIC REPORT SYNOPTIC REPORT - COLON  RECTUM Specimen Type: Right hemicolectomy Tumor Site: Right ascending colon Tumor Configuration: Infiltrative Tumor size: 3.9cm Additional dimensions 3.2cm x 0.5cm WHO Classification Adenocar cinoma 81403 Histologic Grade: G3: Poorly differentiated Extent of Invasion: Subserosa Margins: Margins uninvolved by invasive carcinoma Proximal, Distal, Radial VenousLymphatic Invasion: Present Perineural Invasion: Present Additional Pathologic Fin dings: Adenoma Hyperplastic polyp Extent of Resection: R0: Complete resection with grossly and microscopically negative margins Lymph Nodes: Positive 1  37 Extranodal extension: Absent Implants: Absent Pathological Staging pTNM: pT 3 N 1 M x CLINICAL HISTORY: None provided PRE-OPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: Colon cancer ADDENDUM: ANALYSIS OF MISMATCH REPAIR PROTEIN EXPRESSION SUMMARY OF IMMUNOHISTOCHEMISTRYSPECIAL STAINS Material: Block A9 Population: Tumor Cells StainMarker: Result: Comment: MSH2 Positive MSH6 Positive MLH1 Positive PMS2 Positive The interpretation of the above immunohistochemistry stain or stains is guided by published results in the medical literature, provided package information from the manufacturer and by internal review of staining performance and assay validation within the Immunohistochemistry Laboratory of the. The use of one or more reagents in the above tests is regulated as an analyte specific reagent ASR. These tests were developed and their performance characteristic determined by the Department of Pathology Laboratory at. They have not been cleared or approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. The FDA has determined that such clearance or approval is not necessary. INTERPRETATION: No abnormalities in mismatch repair protein expression identified. Expression of MLH1, MSH2, MSH6, and PMS2 in the tumor was evaluated by immunohistochemistry. Peritumoral lymphocytes and normal glands serve as internal positive controls expressing MLH1, MSH2, MSH6, and PMS2. Testing for Microsatellite Instability has been ordered. The results will be issued in a separate report. 
Diagnosis: This is a mucinous adenocarcinoma in I with infiltr ation of the muscularis and vessels G3, pT2, L1, V1 with free resection margins and free lymph nodes locally R0, pN0, 0 of 12. in II a free anastomosis ring and in III fragments of a serrated adenoma with focally severe chromatin disorders in the sense of a high-risk type of
Accession Number: Report Staus: Final Type: Surgical Pathology Ke,oorL COLON, SEGMENTAL RESECT FOR TUMOR DIAGNOS SPECHlEN LABELED RIGHT COLON: INVASIVE MUCINOUS ADENOCARCINOMA OF THE COLON, moderately differentiated, 2.6 em, arising in association with an adenoma. Tumor focally invades into but not through muscularis propria. No lymphovascular invasion is identified. Eight B lymph nodes are negative for tumor. AJCC Stage: T2 NO Mx. CLINICAL DATA: History: None given. Operation: R colectomy. TISSUE SUBMITTED: 1. R GROSS DESCRIPTION: by The specimen i received the patients name, unit number and 1 right colon. specimen consists of a seggment of ileocecum. The ileum measures 10 em in length and 2.3 em in diameter with a surgical resection margin 2.2 em in diameter. The colon measures 20 em in length and 6 ern in diameter with a surgical resection margin 3.5 em in diameter. A redtan mass 2.6 x 1.7 x 0.8 em is identified in the cecum. The mass is 12 cm from the ileal resection margin inked black and 17 em from the colon surgical resection margin inked black. The mass is 2 cm from the ileocecal valve and does not invade thr-ough the serosa. The serosal surface is grossly unremarkable. The serosal surface adjacent to the tumor is inked black. No appendix is identified. However, a whitetan possible scar 2 x 0.5 ern is present on the serosal surface of the cecum. Micro 1: ileal surgical resection margin Micro 2: colon resection margin en face, Micro 3-5:, mass and surrounding tissues, 4 frags, Micro 6: normal. appearing ileal tissue, 1 Micro 7: normal appearing colonic tissue, Micro 8-11: possible lymph nodes, 15 frags Micro 12: possible scar tissue, 1 frag, mjy Reports to: -- -2 frags,  SPECIMEN TYPE: COLON, SEGMENTAL RESECT FOR TUMOR Page: ! of! 
PATIENTH The patienta PRE OP DIAGNOSIS: Colon cancer POST OP DIAGNOSIS: Same. PROCEDURE: Siomoid colectomy. FINAL DIAGNOSIS: PART 1 COLON, SIGMOID, PARTIAL COLECTOMY - Colloction Dale; A MODERATELY DIFFERENTIATED ADENOCARCINOMA, 6-0 CM. S. TUMOR INVADES THROUGH MUSCULARIS PROPRIA. C. TUMOR ARISES IN THE 8ACKGROUND OF A TU8ULOVILLOUS ADENOMA. D. MARGINS OF RESECTION ARE FREE OF TUMOR. E. NO EVIDENCE OF ANGIOLYMPHATIC INVASION ARE IDENTIFIED. F. ELEVEN11 LYMPH NODES ARE NEGATIVE FOR METASTATIC TUMOR. G. TNM PATHOLOGIC STAGE. pT3, NO. MX. H. TNM HISTOPATHOLOGIC GRADE; G2. L DUKES STAGE: B. ASTLER-COLLER STAGE: B2. J. SEPARATE SMALL TUBULAR ADENOMA, 0.2 CM. PART 2: LYMPH NODE, PELVIC. EXCISION- ONE1 LYMPH NODE NEGATIVE FOR METASTATIC DISEASE. SYNOPTIC -PRIMARY COLON AND RECTAL TUMORS A Location:  1 Ileocecal Region 2. Ascending Colon 3. Transverse Colon B. Procedure. 1 C D 1 Segmental Colectomy 2 Total Colectomy Size of Tumor maximum dimension: 6.0 em Type. 1 1. Adenocarcinoma, NOS 2. Adenoctclnoma arising in a background of an adenoma. 3 Adenocarcinoma arlsmg in a background of inflammatory bowel disease 4. Adenosquamous carcinoma 5. Carcinoid Tumor Neuroendocrine Tumor 6. MUCinOUS Adenocarcinoma 7. Signot ring cell type Adenocarcinoma 8, Neuroendocrine Carcinoma E Grade-2 4. Descending Colon 5. Sigmoid Colon 6, Rectum 3. Other g, Squamous Cell Carcinoma 10. Undifferentiated Carcinoma 11. Sarcoml;! 12. Smoolh Muscle Tumor 13 Gastrointestinal stromal tumor 14. Lymphoma 15 Other 1 Wclldlfferentia1ed Extent of Infillration: 4 2. Moderately dlfferen1iated 3. Poorly differentiated F 1 limited to the mucosa 2 Into submucosa 3 Involving muscularis propria G Angiolymphatic Invasion: . 1 Yes 2. No H Surgical Margins Involved: g 1. Yes 2. No L Regional Lymph Node Involvement g 1. Yes 2. No If regional lymph nodes involved, Number positivenumber examined:   :. K Extracapsular spread: NA 1 Yes 2. No. L Associated conditions: 31  1  1 Ulcerative colitiS. - - - - 2. Crohns Disease. 3 Historyl presence of adenomatous polyps. 4 Multiple polyposIS syndromes. 5, Diverticulosis, M. TNM Stage q N Q M S N. Dukes Stage:  1. A limited to mucosa and muscularis 4, Infiltrating through muscularis propria into serosal adipose tissue 5. Involving adjacent organs! pelvic wall 2. B through muscularis into subserosa 3. C through subserosa and involving adjacent organpelvic wallregional or distant lymph nodes O. Astler -Coller Siage: 1 1. A mucosa but not into muscularis propria  2, 81 muscularis propria but not through, LN negative . 3, B2 thr?ugh muscularis propria. into subserosa! fibroadipose tissue, LN negative 4, C1 !,rmted to musculariS propna but not through serosa, LN positive 5. C2 Invades serosal adipose tissue, LN positive 
Diagnosis: This material shows in I parts of an invasive adenocarcinoma of the colon G2 with penetration of all parietal layers pT3, L1, V1 and with free lymph nodes, in II an additional adenocarcinoma, of moderate differentiation G2, with infiltration of the muscularis pT2, L1, V1, as well as a tubular adenoma and a lymph node metastasis , thus corresponding to N1  1 of 1 6. Tumor classification : I ICDO -DA M -81403, G2, pT3, L1, V1, pN0 0 of 24 II ICDO -DA M -81403, G2, pT 2, L1, V1, pN 1 1 of 16
 TCGA-A6-2681 SPECIMEN Right colon CLINICAL NOTES PRE-OP DIAGNOSIS: Cancerous cecum. GROSS DESCRIPTION Received fresh labeled right colon is a previously unopened 31 em. segment of proximal right colon with attached 28 em. of distal ileum surfaced by smooth tan-pink serosa with a copious amount of attached mesentery, mesocolon, and unremarkable omentum. An unremarkable, 3.2 em. appendix averaging 0.6 em. in diameter is present. The proximal and distal margins measure 4.2 and 7.0 em. in circumference respectively. On opening there is a well-circumscribed, 2.8 x 2.5 em. rubbery tan pink-red tumor mass within the cecal pouch, 2 em. distal to the ileocecal valve. A portion of tumor and a portion of normal mucosa are submitted for tissue procurement as requested. On sectioning; the tumor has a maximal thickness of 0.6 em., approaching the muscularis and extending to within 0.5 em. of the inked free radial serosal surface. The ileal mucosa and uninvolved colonic mucosa is otherwise unremarkable glistening tan-pink with regular folds and the walls average 0.5 ern. in thickness. A few uncomplicated diverticula are evident throughout the colonic segment. Several soft tan pink tissues in keeping with lymph nodes measuring up to 1 em. in greatest dimension are recovered from the attached mesentery and mesocolon. Representative sections are submitted in fifteen blocks as labeled. RS-15. BLOCK SUMMARY: 1 -Proximal and distal margins; 11-01 - entire lesion; 6-ileum; 7 -ICV; 8-random colon; 9-appendix; 10,11- eight whole lymph nodes per cassette; 12 -seven whole lymph nodes; 13-15 -one bisected lymph node per cassette. GROSS DESCRIPTION MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION Histologic type: Adenocarcinoma Histologic grade: Moderately-differentiated Primary tumor pT3: Carcinoma extends through the muscularis propria into the subserosal fat. Proximaldistalradial margins: Negative Vascular invasion: Not identified Regional lymph nodes pN: twenty-three negative lymph nodes 023 Non-lymph node pericolonic tumor: Not identified Other findings: unremarkable appendix, ileum. Diverticulosis. 5 DIAGNOSIS Colon, terminal ileum, appendix, right hemicolectomy: Adenocarcinoma, moderately-differentiated, with invasion through the muscularis propria into the subserosal fat pT3. Margins of excision: Negative. Vascular invasion: Not identified. 
Clinical oiaguoaio  History: Right-aided colon cancer. Specimens Submitted: 1: SP: Right colon DIAGNOSIS: 1. COLON1 RIGHT HEMICOLECTOMY: -TUMOR TlrPE: l.PBNOCMCINOl!A. HISTOLOGIC GRAPE: MODERATELY DIFFERENTITED. -TUMOR LOTION: ASCENDING COLON. -TUMOR SIZE LENGTH IS 4.0 CM, WIDTH IS 5.4 CM. -CROSS CONFIGURATION: ULCERATING INfILTAATX1!:. -TUMOR INVASION: INVASION INTO SOB SEROSA. -CROSS TUMOR PERlOAATION; NOT IDENlI!I:D- -SEROSAL INVOLVEMENT: NOT IDENTIFIED. -VASCOL!.It INVASION; NOT IDENTilIED- -PERINZUR.AI. INVASION: IDENTIFXEP. -SURGICAL MARGINS FOR COLONIC TUMORS: FRBE OF TUMOR. -NONNEOPW.STIC BOWJ!!L: ON:REMAJU-THE PATHOLOGIC STAGE IS pT3. -Ltl!PH NODES: NUMIIER WITH METASTASES: 01 NUMBER EXAMINED: 23. -E PATHOLOGIC STAGE IS : pNO. -APPENDIX AND OMENTUM WITH NO SIGNIFICANT PATHOLOGIC cHANGE. I ;.l.EST TRAT THE UJOVE DIGNOSIS IS !lASED UPON Ml PERSONAL EX.IUNATION OF Tt!E SLIDES ANDOR OTHER MATERIAL , AND THAT I HAW REVIEWED AND APPROVED TlUS REPORT. a  Continued on next page  TCGA-CM-4752 ---------------------------------------------------------Page 2 ot 2 oegm4nt of torninal ile, cecum with attached appendix and ancending colon. The terminal ilauro meaoures 8 Clll in length and 3. 4 em :l.n eircUllf erence at the proximal reaeeted margin. The remaining colon meaeurca 34  in length with a circumference of 8 em at the dieeal resected margin. The attached appendix me.aour ea 7.2 in length and averagea 0.6 em in diaaeter. The appendiceal nd intestinal aerosa is pink tan and DlnOOtb. Focally be,:orrh agic lebul-at ed yellow tan adipose tissue opa.nJI the length of tbe specimen measuring up to 5  in tbiekneao. The specimen is opened to reveal amasa lesion measuring 4 em in length and S.i in width. Sectioning shown that the tumor invades into the pericolic fat. The depth of i3vasion is 0.5 em groasly. The lesion is 5 e from the distal gin. There io attached omental fat measuring 25 x 12 x 1. 5 c:::m. Xt io grossly unre:narkahle. The remaining IDUCosa is unremarkable. Multipl lymph DDIea ar identifid in the attached adipooe tissue and are submitted. Repraentative ections of the opecimen are submitted for permanent section o.nd tor TPS. Summary of sections: PM--proximal margin shave DX --distal margin ahave M--mASS A --appendix representative 3ections RS--rpresentative sections 0 ornt reprasentative sections LN lymph nodS Swnmary of Sections; Part 1: SP: Right colon llloclc Sect. Site 1 A 4 BUN 1 DM 6 LN 4 M 2 0 1 PM l RS PC  End of Report ,. 1 8 1 18 4 2 l 1 
Diagnosis: This is an adenocarcinoma of the colon , poorly differentiat ed, with a partial mucinous component, corresponding to G3, with infiltration of the muscularis and the vessels, corresponding to L1, V1, with free resection margins in the area of the m ucosa and in the deep resection margin area, as well as lymph nodes in two sections with metastases of the carcinoma described corresponding to pN1. Tumor classification : ICDO -DA M -81403, G3, pT2, L 1, V 1, pN1 2 of 12 , locally R0, M classification in the context of an oncology conference. 
TCGA 4: ; ample ID . Diagnosis: Right hemicolectomy preparation tumor -free resection margins ,several tubular colon adenomas of the mucous membrane with up to moderate dysplasia synonymous: mild intraepithelial neoplasia ,with several more recent mucosal ulcerations and displaying status post excision of further adenomas of the colon mucosa compare previous findings xxxxxxxxxxx and xxxxxxxxxxxxx and with inclusion of a colorectal double carcinoma characterized as an ulcerated ,moderately differentiated type of adenocarcinoma in the -colon ascen d--ing and in the transverse coon cm an cm aborally of the ileocecal va ve ,o--t with invasion of the am pma scularis propria ,and with invasion of the lymphatic vessels and with a total of three local lymph node metastases G2, pT2 L1, VO RO, pN 1 321. je -o-3 ci do-mI-, No  ABC  a, - I UUID:DDD08E2A-0318-4488-B968-74697603B470 TCGA-AA-A01C-01A-PR Redacted III 1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 III 111111111111111111111111 II I I III III I 1111111 INNI111111III IIII II IIIIIII1111 c,I .0. Dieosis f .iserepznry Primer y Tumor 5i:e Discrepancy !PAA Diz, repancy P,irr M.IignanrY hiutr D1S1Synchron tz Pr C- is Rirc:ei R er lm5 ONoted QUALIFIED in . i wed: uJYes 0
 Diagnosis  Diagnoses:  1.: Small specimen with submesothelial fibrosis excised from the peritoneum. 2.: Resectate from a portion of the colon sigmoid with an ulcerated colon carcinoma, of the histological type of a moderately differentiated colon carcinoma, that extends no closer than 3 cm to the resection margin and occupies a circular portion of the intestinal wall over an length of 5 cm. Invasive spread of the tumor within all layers of the intestinal wall as far as the neighboring mesocolic fa tty tissue. Oral and aboral resection margin tumor -free. 27 mesocolic lymph nodes tumor -free, with uncharacteristic reactive changes. The tumor stage is thus pT3 pN0 127, L0, V0, R0; G2 
Diagnosis: Right hemicolectomy preparation with a colon and cecal carcinoma characterized histologically as a moderately differentiated, colorectal adenocarcinoma, measuring 3 cm in diameter at the widest point. Invasive spread of the tumor within all intestinal wall layers up to the bordering mesocolic fatty tissue. Aborally to Bauhins valve, ascending colon with a tubular adenoma measuring 2.3 cm with moderate epithelial dysplasia synonym: low-grade intraepithelial neoplasia. An isolated section of the appendix displays enduring, slightly florid, chronic appendicitis and distinctive, enduring periappendicitis with resorptive xanthous tissue reaction, clearly as a result of a tumor-related relocation of the appendix ostium. The subserosa of the cecum and the oral section of the ascending colon have evidently progressive and extensive macrophage-rich inflammation in the context of perityphlitis. The stage of tumor is therefore: pT3, pNO, 040 LO VO; G2 RO page 1 
Confidential UUID:AEOSSDSA -7249-44E5-87AA -663B07DA6A63 TCGA-T9-A92H-01A-PR Redacted III IIIIIIIiIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIII IIIIIIlflll lllIII IIIIIII III IIIIII iiii III IIIIIIIII IIIiIIIIIIIIIIIIllhIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIillIII IIIIIIII Subject Number: Site ID: Please completeALL Information with black ball point pen .Ensure information is legible. Retain original and email fax copy to Sample Collection Date:Procured by.  Time of TumorSample ExcisionTime tone: 24 hour clock; TUMOR- FROZEN FRESH SAMPLESIF COLLECTED, SHIPPED ON DAY OF COLLECTIONUMOR SAMPLE ,FRESH TFROZEN SAMPLES BATCH SHIPPED dry ca; FR Collect resected tumor in accordance with standard procedures. Weigh the sample and section off -100mg. Frozen Tumor Re iredPlace this sample in the cryovial labeled Frozen Tumor sample and record the weight. Place the cryovial in a cane and then into the vapor phase dewar. Record the time placed in dewar. Weight of Tissue: 2-70 mg tissue weight must be 2100mgTime placed in dewar: 24 hour clockHH : M M remairtr.Fre h Tumor Optional  Q NA tube sent separately.Place any Locate the Fresh Tumor label in the kit and affix to the 15m1 tumor tissue into the 15 ml conical tube containing 5y f Tiue:00  mgTime placed inss Weight 024 hour clockH : M M no min .weight specified WHOLE BLOOD SAMPLE Required  -BATCHED SHIPPED FROZEN dry Ice sample collection Date: DD - M M I MLot Number of Procured by: - Time of Blood Sample Collection  TimeZone: 24 hour clock:M 1-10ml EDTA tube. Fill tube completely and mix by gentle inversion at least 8-10 times. Freeze sample on dry ice or place in vapor phase dewar. Time placed In dry ice dewar: 24 hour clockHH : M M BASIC PATHOLOGICAL INFORMATION gmen: Source o f Clinical Diagnosis :li 1 l, Specimen: n Right Lung Ex. Lung Cancer  Confidential Valid from eCCU l .,-. a ,kd5 a6 1,3 0- 1 11; J41Page 1 of 2Confidential Tissue Blood Requisition Form -----------------------Affix Label Here Or Write in Sample ID Y Site ID: Subject Number:   ;s   f iagnostic Slides Required SLIDES ; BATCHED SHIPPED ttY From the diagnostic FFPE block, cut 3 slides with one section 4-51im on each slide. Label the frosted tip of the slide in pencil with the sample ID located on the label at the top of this form. Record the ID number of the diagnostic histology cassette and the number of slides. HE stain the slides and store in a slide mailer. Diagnostic Histology Cassette ID Number of Slides Cut !Refer o  Yiudy Manual for detailed specimen processing a nd hii  inginstructions,  denotes reaulr dla Specimen Collection Vessel Transfer Tube Shipping Status Frozen Tumor  None Cryovial Same Day - Dry Ice Frozen Blood  1-lOml EDTA None Same Day - Dry Ice Fresh Tumor None 15ml- Same Day --Refrigerated Diagnostic Slides  Histology Cassette SuperFrost Slides 5-SIIde Mailer-Batch W en FROZ N and FRESH samples are ready for shipment please notifyby; Emalil notific tion y;ti h me, please also provide your Sample Manifest l! i41 !slI  v t itti! y , tyt t Y y 1 A T  iiii Y:5! 7;.fit ti ! 7 t ;, i itltltl  e. e l i A t d, q  r. rtd3   V f x ; S. lt f:l!Itjt . . i1;: .   t tE I f ti rxt  -a .ql, W ien the,EDi agno tic slides areready forlshipmen please notify by mail notification  t thi1 d A p1t ;7 lsro ide your Sample 4Manifest , , , P ae f ti ielIIii k 5 ,  1 f i tl1 fJ i IIF - 1  t . 1 14 fit lr 1i ! !7,h ;A i  FgI 1 T Yrk ,rv.gi . ti Utl  Y t, 1,1,fJ frIt , , xw DO NOT RETURN ?EMPTY QNTAINTER5 TCi ,  , ;a a Y; Y ft  t t 1 t ,S t  r ..  ,t  ;.4 .. Y r,  ds Yellow ind to a holo for dip! 1h tL o i R taro f r or. Recor cots 111 Y ilYp Y se p gY 6ncsidle S..  ilYt j4  1   71  e4 i1 t zi Confidential Valid from Page 2 of 2rage 1 of 2 Suirgll al PalhOtogy , Final Report tempotary t t  .  .: : Final Diagnosis Superior hemorrhoidal lymph node: One 1 lymph node negative for neoplasm. Sigmoid colon ,segmental resection: Adenocarcinoma. -Histologic grade :Moderately to poorly differentiated. -Tumor size: 6 .3 cm in greatest dimension. -Tumor extension :Tumor penetrates muscularis propria and extends into pericolonic fat. -Lymph- vascular invasion :Definite lymph -vascular invasion is not identified. -Perineural invasion :Present ,focal. -Surgical margins: Proximal and distal margins negative for neoplasm. Radial margin negative for neoplasm. Mesenteric vascular margin negative for neoplasm. -Closest surgical margin :Proximal .Tumor comes to within 5.3 cm. -Lymph nodes :Thirteen 13 of thirteen 13 lymph nodes negative for neoplasm 013. AJCC pathologic stage :pT3,N0. Clinical InformationColon cancer.-5FAC.E  G c 2-a Gross DescriptionA, Superior hemorrhoidal lymph node .Received is a 0.5 cm lymph node with attached fat. A, an. B, Sigmold colon .Received Is an 18 .6 an segment of colon with attached pericolonic fat. There is a stitch attached to one end of the specimen which is designated as proximal. The proximal margin will be inked orange .There is a 6.3 x 5 .8 cm full circumferential ulcerated mass on the mucosa which is 5.3 cm from the proximal margin .There is black ink on the radial margin adjacent to the mass .The mass grossly appears to extend through the full thickness of the wall of the colon and to involve the adjacent pericolonic fat. No other masses or lesions are grossly identified on the remaining mucosa. There is a vascular pedide identified on the pericolonic fat. The mass grossly appears to come within 3 .8 cm of the pedicle. The margin of the pedicie will be shaved and submitted .On sectioning the pericolonic fat, there are 11 possible lymph nodes ranging from 0.4-0.8 cm .B1, proximal and distal margins and vascular pedicle margin ; B24B4, random sections mass ; 85, possible regional lymph node : 136, possible lymph nodes remaining pencolonicfat. Diagnosis Discrepancyfl3liI i 3Lyer Primary Tumor Site Discrepancy HIPAA Discrepancy Prior Malignancy History DualSynchronous Prim ary N Case is Iclrclel: Reviewer InitialsRnII D  DISQUALIFIED Date Reviewed INo 672
 Date Coll: SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT SPECIMEN Left hemicolectomy CLINICAL NOTES PRE- OP DIAGNOSIS: Descending colon cancer. GROSS DESCRIPTION Received fresh subsequently fixed in formalin labeled left hemicolectomy is a 28 cm. long portion of colon. The specimen is open at both ends, arbitrarily inked blue and black. There is pink- tan smooth glistening serosa. The peritoneal reflections cannot be grossly identified. The specimen shows an umbilication midway through the specimen. This area of umbilication is inked orange. The specimen is opened to show a pink- tan smooth, glistening mucosa with normal to abundant folds with an average circumference of 5 cm. Located near the umbilication is a 4.8 x 4.0 cm. circumferential ulcerated lesion. The cut surface of this lesion shows invasion into the muscularis propria, coming within 7.5 cm. of the radial margin, contiguous with the umbilication previously described. The cut surface shows multiple diverticula present. No discrete gross evidence of submucosal abscess or perforation identified. There is a firm nodule in the fatty tissue on cut surface it is grossly consistent with a diverticula containing firm formed fecal material. No other discrete gross lesions identified. Multiple lymph nodes are grossly identified. Representative sections of the specimen are submitted as follows: BLOCK SUMMARY: 1 - Representative luminal margins; 2 - representative section of diverticula with firm fecal material; 3 - tumor to umbilication; 4 - tumor to normal; 5 - tumor to fat; 6 - representative section of radial margin; 7 - possible mottled lymph node subjacent to tumor; 8 - 3 possible lymph nodes; 9 - 8 possible lymph nodes; 10 - 9 possible lymph nodes; 11 - 10 possible lymph nodes; 12- 14 - 9 possible lymph nodes; 12- 15 - 9 possible lymph nodes; 16 - 6 possible lymph nodes; 17 - 6 possible lymph nod 18 - 3 possible lymph nodes. AS- 18. MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION Histologic type: Adenocarcinoma Histologic grade: Moderately- differentiated Primary tumor pT3: Carcinoma into and through muscularis propria, into the subserosal fat. Proximaldistalradial margins: Negative. Vascular invasion: Not identified. Regional lymph nodes pN: Metastatic carcinoma in 1 of 65 lymph nodes 165. Non- lymph node pericolonic tumor: One focus, in area of main tumor mass possibly a lymph node replaced by carcinoma. Other findings: diverticuli, multiple. 5 DIAGNOSIS Colon, left hemicolectomy: Adenocarcinoma, moderately- differentiated, with invasion through the muscularis propria into the subserosa. Negative margins of excision. Metastatic carcinoma in one of sixty- five lymph nodes 165. One focus of pericolonic tumor possible lymph node, adjacent to main tumor mass. --- End Of Report --- 
Diagnosis: Right hemicolectomy preparation with tumor -free oral and aboral resection margins and including an ulcerated, poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma of the ascending colon, with infiltration of the perimuscular fatty tissue and numerous regional l ymph node metastases G3, pT3, L1, V1 local R0 pN2 2429.
 Diagnosis  Diagnoses:  Resected cross -section of the colon with tumor -free resection margins, under inclusion of a tubular adenoma with mild dysplasia synonym: low -grade intra -epithelial neoplasia and a tubulovillous adenoma with focal severe dys plasia synonym: high- grade intra - epithelial neoplasia and with a well to moderately differentiated colorectal adenocarcinoma G1 to 2 with infiltration of the lamina muscularis propria and without regional lymph node metastases pT2 pN0 031 on the bas e of a further tubulovillous adenoma with severe dysplasia. Final preliminary results 
Diagnosis: 1. and 3. Right hemicolectomy preparation with tumor- free oral and aboral resection margins and including an ulcerated, moderately differentiated double carcinoma of the colon ascending colon pT4 L1 V0 R0 and left flexure pT3 L1 V0 R0 with two local lymph node metastases pN1b 341 1. and with hepatic spread pM1a 3..
PATIENT HISTORY; PRE-OP DIAGNOSIS: Colon cancer. POST-OP DIAGNOSIS: Same. PROCEDURE: Laparoscopic right hemicolectomy. AMENDEDCORRECTED REPOR r: This amendment reflects: 1. fhe following change: Include the gross examination only intraoperative consultation remarks 2. Where: In the intraoperative consultation field 3. For the following reason: They were inadvertently omitted from the original report 1. The Final Diagnosis and Synoptic Data remain unchanged. This AmendedCorrected Report supersedes all prior reports under this accession number and should be the only one used for patient management All reports. both original and amendedcorrected. are maintained In electronic archives and are available upon request. FINAL DIAGNOSIS: COLON. RIGHT HEMICOLECTOMY - A. MODERATELY DIFFERENTIATED ADENOCARCINOMA OF THE ASCENDING COLON. 3.5 CM, INVASIVE INTO SUBSEROSA WITH PERFORATION OF THE VISCERAL PERITONEUM, B. PRO,XIMAL TERMINAL ILEAL AND DISTAL COLONIC MARGINS ARE FREE OF TUMOR. C. METASTATIC ADENOCARCINOMA IN ONE OF TWENTYTWO LYMPH NODES 122. D. PATHOLOGIC STAGE: pT4b N1 Mx . . E. FIBROUS OBLITERATION OF THE APPENDIX. CASE SYNOPSIS: SYNOPTIC DATA -PRIMARY COLON, RECTAL, APPENDIX TUMORS SPECIMEN TYPE: . Right hemicolectomy TUMOR SITE: Right ascending colon TUMOR CONFIGURATION: Infiltrative TUMOR SIZE: Greatest dimension: 3.5 cm INTACTNESS OF MESORECTUM: HISTOLOGIC TYPE: HISTOLOGIC GRADE: PATHOLOGIC STAGING pTNM: MARGINS: Additional dimensions: 2.2xO.8 cm Not applicable Adenocarcinoma Low-grade well to moderately differentiated pT4b pN1: Metastasis in 1 to 3 regional lymph nodes Number of nodes examined: 22 Number of nodes involved: 1 X .. . Proximal margin uninvolved by invaSive carcinoma Distal margin uninvolved by invasive carcinoma Circumferential radial margin -Not applicable Mesenteric margin uninvolved by invasive carcinoma ANGIOL YMPHATIC INVASION: Present PERINEURAL INVASION: Absent TUMOR BORDER CONFIGURATION: Infiltrating ADDITIONAL TUMOR CHARACTERISTICS: None t.nnITIONAL PATH FINDINGS check all that apply: None identified 
ITCGA : Sample ID : Diagnosis: This is an invasive ,moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma in the sigmoid colon. Both resection margins are tumor -free, as is the area of the central vascular ligature. There is also a lymph node metastasis. Tumor classification: ICDO-DA M 81403 G2 pT3, pN1119, R 0. ICD-0-3 4 t iU. OT P; NO 5 8i 403 Clk. 7 331111  UUID:5A447FA7-E561-4F17-9A66 -0CF94402DSC3 TCGA-AA-A01S-01A-PR Redacted IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll III IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 111111III IIIIIII I IIIIIIIIIIIII I II I IIIIIIIIIIIII VIII I III I IIIIIII I III n 
UUID:E166D77A- 9039-4B86-9320-89460A9AA69D TCGA-A6-A567-01A-PRRedacted III 111111111111111111IIIIII11IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII011111III III IIIIIIIIIIIIIII11111111I1111111IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIII111111 IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII111111II I11111I II I IIIIIIII11111111 SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT SPECIMEN A.Lower anterior colon - sigmoid B.Appendix CLINICAL NOTES PRE-OP DIAGNOSIS: Sigmoid colon cancer POST-0P DIAGNOSIS: Rectal cancer - involvement of apical nodes. ?Implant lateral mesentery.IoS aa gD63 ,Tg7 GROSS DESCRIPTION A.Received fresh, subsequently fixed in formalin, labeled sigmoid colon. The specimen consists of a 22 cm. long portion of colon which is stapled at the proximal end, opened at the distal end. The proximal end is inked blue and the distal end is inked black. The specimen is opened to show a pink tan smooth glistening mucosa with normal to abundant folds. The circumference of the proximal end is 4.5 cm. and the circumference at the distal end is 7.5 cm. The specimen shows a 4.8 x 3.5 x 1 cm. tumor which comes within 5 cm. of the distal margin. The serosa of the specimen is pink tan smooth glistening and predominantly covered with yellow lobular fat. The specimen shows a 2.5 x 1.5 cm. serosal umbilication. This umbilication is inked blue. The tumor also shows gross invasion through the muscularis propria into the fat. Multiple lymph nodes are grossly identified in the surrounding fat. There is a focus of mesenteric margin peduncle which feels somewhat indurated. The proximal lymph node may be present in this area. There is also a 1.5 x 1.5 irregular indurated focus on the surface coming in within 9 cm. of the proximal margin. The cut surface of this induration site shows possible tumor present. There is also a small polyp grossly identified which is 0.5 cm. this is located 3 cm. from the distal margin. This polyp shows no invasion grossly identified. Representative sections of the specimen are submitted for tissue procurement. Representative sections of the remainder of the specimen are submitted as follows: BLOCK SUMMARY: 1 - Representative luminal margins; 2 - mesenteric margin shave; 3 - polyp full thickness; 4 - tumor to serosal umbilication; 5 - tumor to normal; 6 - tumor to fat; 7 - radial margin; 8 - indurated surface nodule with possible tumor; 9-12 - nine possible lymph nodes each; 13 - four possible lymph node; 14 - lymph node at mesenteric peduncle bisected; 15 - rPnresentative section of possible mottled lymph node. RS15 B.Received in formalin labeled appendix is a 6 x 0.5 cm.unremarkable appendix partially covered with pink tan smooth glistening serosa and yellow lobular fat. The specimen is sectioned to show an intact wall with an average thickness of 0.3 cm. The lumen ranges from pinpoint to 0.??. Representative sections of the specimen are submitted in one cassette with the proximal end inked. RS1 MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION Microscopic sections of the sigmoid tumor reveals a moderate to poorly differentiated colonic adenocarcinoma which has extended through the bowel wall into the mesenteric fat.The area of irregular indurated soft tissue at the mesenteric root does not contain any carcinoma. There are three positive mesenteric lymph nodes present. One of these is present at the mesenteric root and represents the most proximal lymph node in the dissection. There is a soft tissue metastasis present in the mesentery as well. The results of the evaluation of the resection are summarized in the following template. Histologic type: Adenocarcinoma. Histologic grade: Moderate to poorly differentiated. Primary tumor pT: Tumor invades through the colon wall into the mesenteric fat pT3. Proximal margin: Negative. Distal margin: Negative. Circumferential radial margin: Negative. Vascular invasion: Negative. Regional lymph nodes pN: Three of 41 mesenteric lymph nodes contain metastatic adenocarcinoma pNl. Non-lymph node pericolonic tumor: Present. Distant metastasis pM: Tumor is present as a soft tissue metastasis in the colonic mesentery pMl. Other findings: Adenomatous polyp. Appendix without significant histopathologic findings. DIAGNOSIS A. Colon, sigmoid, segmental resection: Invasive moderate to poorly differentiated colonic adenocarcinoma extending through the wall of the colon into the pericolonic fat. Proximal, distal and radial margins of resection are free of tumor. Three of 41 mesenteric lymph nodes contain metastatic adenocarcinoma 341. Soft tissue metastasis present in the soft tissues of the lateral mesentery. Adenomatous polyp. B. Appendix, incidental appendectomy: No significant histopathologic findings. --- End Of Report --- Crft :r:a Oiagno:is Discrepanry  Primary Tumor Site Discrcrancy HIPAA Discrepancy- Not Malignancy
Path First Tumor Tumor Site: Sigmoid Distal Date of Cancer Sample Procurement: -.   01 Histology: Adenocarcinoma Description of other histology:- ... Grade: Moderately Differentiated Mucinous: r No r Yes r Yes FocalC Unknown Signet Ring Feature: re No r Yes r Yes FocalrUnknown Histologic Heterogeneity: r No C Yes r Unknown Host Response: None   Crohns like reaction re None r Yes C Unknown Plasma cell rich stroma r No r Yes C Unknown Growth Pattern: r Expansile r Invasive r Expansile r Unknownand Invasive Inflammatory Bowel Disease re No r Yes r Unknown Angiolymphatic Invasion: reNo CYes C Unknown Mutator Phenotype: re No r Yes r Unknown Number of Slides 11 Garland Necrosis present: t No re Yes FocalYesr Unknown TIL Cells  HPF 0 Pathologist Comment:I UUIDTCGAB -9096731A0 DM-A28E-91A-PRRedacted III IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII1111111111111IIIIIIII II 11111111111111111III 1111111111111111111111111111111IIIIIIIIIIIIlliii11111IIIIII IllIIIlIIIIIIIIIIIIIIlIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIICD-0-3 Rolr,o Mos9yfo3 Site ;  A c ,v C i 7 f363a Cdterla ---- Diaf.nosis PsrcPan  nrryTnn .or;itcDls crrParrv N!f 1Discrepany - Pir tlal.R- N1 story DualSythrcnoos rri rv Nu sad - DI UPII.CDU.tifl LL - llkj: !-,scrt Cae Reviewer Il.ia   D to Reviewed
, The patient is a . A colonoscopy showed partially obstructing fungating tumor 0 the Ie Icolon close to splenic f ure. No other abnormalities seen. Bowel prep was suboptimal as a result of partial obstruction of poor bowel prep. evaluation as not continued. Biopsy of this lesion revealed adenocarcinoma. PRE OP DIAGNOSiS: Colon Cancer.  POST OP DIAGNOSiS Same. PROCEDURE: Not given, ADDENDA: Addendum At the request of 2 lilltMJ. EGFR imm The immunohistochemical stain for EGFR is HE stained slide from this case had to be de interfere with the immunohistochemical reacti metastatic tumor d is pend; FINAL DIAGNOSIS: PART 1 AND 2: LARGE INTESTINE, PARTIAL RESEC A. INVASIVE MODERATELY DIFFE MUSCULARIS PROPRIA INTO T ANGIOLYMPHATIC INVASION. STAGE T3NOMX, DUKES B, AST B. TWELVE 12 PERICOLONIC LY ostaining waS performed on a section of the colon cancer slide 1 H. alive, but this interpretation is based on an altered method an original tained in order to be stained for EGFR, a process that could potentially . Thus, an additional EGFR slain has been requ:;oelsliteiidiioilinltlihlis.Piatients ; the results will be reported as an addendum of ON WITH SUBSEQUENT REVISION OF NEW PROXIMAL MARGIN - NTIATED COLONIC ADENOCARCINOMA EXTENDING THROUGH THE SEROSAL ADIPOSE TISSUE: DIAMETER 6.S CM. NO EVIDENCE OF RINEURAL INVASION IDENTIFIED. ALL MARGINS FREE. PATHOLOGIC RCOLLERB2. H NODES WITH NO EVIDENCE OF METASTATIC CARCINOMA. MICROSCOPIC: SYNOPTIC A. Location:  L Ileocecal Region 2. Ascending Colon 3. Transverse Colon B. Procedure: 1 1. Segmental Colectomy 2. Total Colectomy C. Size of Tumor maximum dimension: 6.5 c D. Type: 1 1. Adenocarcinoma, NOS 2. Adenocarcinoma arising in a backgrou of an adenoma. 3. Adenocarcinoma arising in a backgrou of inflammatory Qowel disease 4. Adenosquamou carcinoma 5. Carcinoid Tumor Neuroendocrine Tum 6. Mucinous Adenocarcinoma 7. Signet ring cell type Adenocarcinoma 8. Neuroendocrine Carcinoma E. Grade: g RIMARY COLON AND RECTAL TUMORS 4. Descending Colon 5. Sigmoid Colon 6. Rectum 3. Other 9. Squamous Cell Carcinoma 10. Undifferentiated Carcinoma 11. Sarcoma 12. Smooth Muscle TUmor 13. Gastrointestinal stromal fumor 14. Lymphoma 15. Other 1. Well differentiated F. Fxtent of Infiltration:  2. Mode tely differentiated 3. Poorly differentiated 1. Limited to the mucosa 2. Into submucosa 3. Involving musculris propria G. Angiolymphatic Invasion: g 1. Yes 2. No H. Surgical Margins Involved: ;1 1. Yes 2. No I. Regional Lymph Node Involvement: ;1 1. Yes 2. No J. If regional lymph nods involved, Number positivenumber examined: NA. K. Extracapsular spread,: NA Yes 2 .. No. L. Associated condition: NA 1. Ulcerative colitis. 2. Crohns Disease. 3. History presence of adenomataus poly 4. Multiple polyposis syndromes. 5, Diverticulosis, M. TNM Stage: Til N Q M ;s N. Dukes Stage:;f 1. A limited to mucosa and muscularis 2. B.through muscularis into subserosa 3. C through subserosa and involving ad O. Astler -Coller Stage:  1. A mucosa but not into muscularis propr 2. B1 muscularis ptopria bul not through, 3. B2 through muscularis propria into sub 4. C1 limited to muscularis propria but not 5. C2 invades serosal adipose tissue, LN 4. Infiltrating through muscularis propria Into serosal adipose tissue 5. Involving adjacent organs pelvic wall ent organpelvic wallregional or distant lymph nodes  negative rosal fibroadipose tissue, LN negative rougl1 serosa, LN positive sitivs 
Right hemicolectomy specimen with tumor -free resection margins, including a small tubular and a larger tubulovillous adenoma with moderate dysplasia, with an ulcerated, poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma with infiltration of the peri muscular fat tissue G3, pT3 and a moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma with infiltration of the submucosa G2, pT1 in the proximal large bowel and with a detectable ulcer in the aboral section of the preparation, evidently with status post complete endocoscopic excision of a tubulovillous adenoma with severe dysplasia cf. most recent preliminary findings. Tumor -free oral and aboral resection margins. Unremarkable appendix. Tumor -free omental tissue DiagnosisDiagnoses: A follow -up report will be made on the lymph node status. Follow -up report: Only twenty -one lymph nodes of up to 0.4 cm in size in the vicinity of the tumor were dissected out from the pericolic fatty tissue after clarification with acetone. Microscopically these were all tumor -free. In conclusion, the previously diagnosed double carcinoma of the right colon can be assigned to category pN0 012. 
TCGA-A6-3809 SPECIMEN Extended right hemicolectiomy -subtotal colectomy CLINICAL NOTES PRE-OP DIAGNOSI: Carcinoma transverse colon GROSS DESCRIPTION Received fresh in a container labeled extended right hemicolectomy -subtotal colectomy is a segment of bowel consisting of 6 em. of terminal ileum lith 50 em of contiguous colon. There is a 30 x 11 x 1 em. portion of omentum which is adherent to the outer aspect of the colon wall over an area 6 x 5 em, with induration of the omentum in that area. The serosal surface the of the bowel away from where the omentum is attached is glistening and tan-pink. No appendix is present with the specimen. The bm1el is opened. The small bowel averages 4.5 em. in circumference and colon averages 8.5 em. in circumference. The mucosa of the small bowel is tan-pink, smooth, and glistening, with a normal pattern of folds. There are no focal lesions in the small bowel. The colon is notable for a circumferential mass, with the bowel 12 em. in circumference in this region, with this mass 9 em. long and maximally 1.2 em. thick. Sectioning through the mass reveals the tumor to invade through the bowel wall into fat in the region with adherent omentum noted above, appearing to involve the omentum. The tumor comes very near to1 but does not clearly reach1 the outer margin. The tumor is 24 ern. from the distal resection margin. The remainder of the colonic mucosa is tan-pink vlith edematous folds, with additional polyps up to 0.3 ern. in greatest dimension. The adipose tissue is dissected, and there are multiple soft tan lymph nodes identified. RS-12, following fixation. BLOCK SUMMARY: 1 -proximal and distal resection margins; 2 - ileocecal valve; 3 -mucosa away from mass, including polyps; 4-7 - tumor, including relationship to omentum; 8-12 -lymph nodes. GROSS DESCRIPTION MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION The following template summarizes the findings in this case: Histologic type: Adenocarcinoma, with some features of mucinous adenocarcinoma. Histologic grade: Moderately differentiated Primary tumor pT : Adenocarcinoma invades through the full thickness of the bowel wall into the surrounding adipose tissue. grossly this appeared to be into omentum1 it is favored this is pT4. Proximal margin: Negative Distal margin: Negative Circumferential radial margin: Tumor is not at the outer surface of the specimen, but is 1 rnm from the outer surface where the omentum is adherent. Clinical correlation is recommended regarding whether this is radial margin or a free surface. Distance of tumor from closest margin: See above Vascular invasion: Not definitively identified Regional lymph nodes pN: pNO. Twenty-four lymph nodes are identified and they are negative for malignancy. Non-lymph node pericolonic tumor: Not identified Distant metastasis pM : pMX Other findings: There is prominent necrosis in areas of the tumor. There is a separate adenomatous polyp. Note: This case has been discussed with . DIAGNOSIS Terminal ileum and extended right hemicolectomy-subtotal colectomy, excision -Moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma, with some features of mucinous adenocarcinoma, invading throught the full thickness of colonic wall and into surrounding adipose tissue and adherent omentum see microscopic description. -Proximal and distal resection margins negative for malignancy, with tumor 1 rnm from outer surface of specimen see microscopic description . -Twenty-four lymph nodes negative for malignancy. ---End Of Report --- 
Diagnosis: Resected colon sample with two moderately differentiated, invasive adenocarcinoma of the colorectal type, measuring max 5 cm in diameter, both with infiltration of the pericolic fatty tissue. Two local lymph node metastases. Tumor -free colon res ection margins. Tumor -free mesenteric resection margin. The tumor stage is: pT3, 2, pN1 233 pNX; G2, L0, V0, local R0.
i  TCGA : Sample ID : Diagnosis: Resected section of colon left hemicolon with two colon carcinomas characterized histologically as colorectal adenocarcinoma of similarly moderate differentiation, one located at a distance of 3.5 cm from the resection margin, with a diameter of 3.5 cm at the widest point, and the other located 18 cm from the same resection margin, and measuring 3.3 cm at the widest point, one at the base of a tubulovillous adenoma with severe epithelial dysplasia synonymous: profound intraepithelial neoplasia, and the other clearly at the base of a tubular adenoma with severe epithelial dysplasia synonymous: profound intraepithelial neoplasia. Invasive spread of the tumor to the layers of the muscularis propria. Mucous membrane of the colon with a tubulovillous adenoma of the colon mucosa with severe epithelial dysplasia synonym: profound intraepithelial neoplasia and two tubular adenomas of the colon mucosa, with moderate epithelial dysplasia synonym: mild intraepithelial neoplasia. Tumor-free oral and aboral resection margin. 36 local lymph nodes are tumor-free with uncharacteristically reactive changes. Stage of tumor of both colon carcinomas: pT2 pNO 036 LO VO; G2 RO. CD- 0-3 -acn oCa..ro a- . NOS 8 d3 OW UUID:51A35A40 -E611-49C3-AB69-638871664D86 TCGA-AA-A01I-01A-PR Redacted 111 11 1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 III1I IIII IIIIIIIII1 11111111111111111111111111111111111 1111111111 Crker4 epanr Prim Tumor Site Disoepancy 0HIPAA Discre pancy Prior Mal nancy History DoplSyncMoncos Pont Caw is ctreia!: RaviaWe. nitiakNoted QUAJFIEO Date ReviewDDQUAUFIED
 Date Coll: SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT SPECIMEN Right colon CLINICAL NOTES PRE- OP DIAGNOSIS: Carcinoma of the hepatic flexure. GROSS DESCRIPTION Received fresh labeled right colon is a previously unopened, 12 cm segment of proximal right colon with attached 6 cm of distal ileum surfaced by smooth to scabrous tan- pink serosa with a moderate amount of attached mesocolon, mesentery and unremarkable omentum. An unremarkable 6.6 cm appendix averaging 0.5 cm in diameter is present. The proximal and distal margins measure 2.8 and 5 cm in circumference respectively. On opening, there is a nearly circumferential, 10.8 x 8 cm partially necrotic dusky tan- gray-red tumor mass, 4 cm distal to the ileocecal valve. On sectioning, the tumor has a maximum thickness of 2.4 cm, grossly extending into the muscularis to within 1.1 cm of the inked free radial serosal surface. The ileal and remaining colonic mucosa is unremarkable, glistening tan- pink with regular folds and the walls average 0.5 cm in thickness. Several slightly rubbery pale tan- white tissues in keeping with lymph nodes measuring up to 1.4 cm in greatest dimension are recovered from the attached mesocolon and mesentery. Representative sections are submitted in 15 blocks as labeled. BLOCK SUMMARY: 1 - Proximal and distal margin; 2, 3 - tumor full thickness to ink free radial serosal surface orange; 4 - central tumor; 5 - tumor to normal mucosa; 6 - ICV; 7 - random colon; 8 - appendix; 9, 10, - six whole lymph es per cassette; 11- 15 - one bisected lymph node per cassette. MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION Histologic type: Adenocarcinoma with mucinous differentiation Histologic grade: Moderately differentiated Primary tumor pT: Extends through muscularis propria pT3 Proximal margin: Not involved Distal margin: Not involved Circumferential radial margin: Not involved Vascular invasion: Not identified Regional lymph nodes pN: No evidence of metastasis in 18 nodes pN0 Non- lymph node pericolonic tumor: Not identified Distant metastasis pM: Cannot be evaluated by this specimen pMX Other findings: None 5 DIAGNOSIS Right colon, resection: Adenocarcinoma, moderately differentiated, with mucinous differentiation, 10.8 cm with invasion through the muscularis propria. Surgical margins uninvolved. No evidence of metastasis in 18 lymph nodes 018. Appendix, appendectomy: No pathologic diagnosis.  --- End Of Report --- 
 DiagnosisDiagnoses:  Colonic resection specimen sigmoid with a colon carcinoma of the histological type of a moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma, measuring 3 cm in its largest diameter and extending to a maximum of 11 cm from the resection m argin. Invasive tumor spread to the level of the muscularis propria. Oral and aboral margins tumor -free. Ten mesocolic lymph nodes tumor -free and with uncharacteristically reactive changes. Tumor stage therefore pT2 pn0 010 L0 V0; G2.  Follow -up report:  A further lymph node preparation was performed subsequently after special fixation. A further seven very small lymph nodes were detected as a result. Histologically the lymph nodes are tumor -free. Lymph node status therefore pN0 017 
 TCGA-A6-2676 SPECIMEN Terminal ileum, right colon with attached small bowel and right ovary CLINICAL NOTES PRE-OP DIAGNOSIS: Ascending colon mass. GROSS DESCRIPTION Received fresh for tissue procurement labeled 11terrninal ileum, right colon with attached small bowel and right ovary is a previously unopened 35 em. segment of proximal right colon with attached 50 em. of distal ileum, an additional 10 em. of adhesed small bowel and cerebriform 2.7 x 1.0 x 0.8 em. rubbery tan gold ovary with associated 2.2 em. fimbriated tubal segment. A minimal amount of unremarkable omentum is present in addition to a moderate amount of mesocolon and mesentery. The serosa is smooth to scabrous tan pink-purple. The proximal and distal margins measure 3.7 and 6.2 em. in circumference respectively. On opening there is a necrotic 12.5 x 9.5 em. circumferential white pink-red tumor mass at the ileocecal valve involving both the distal ileum and proximal cecum. A portion of tumor is procured as requested. On sectioning, there is a maximal thickness of 3.5 em. grossly descending through the muscularis into the attached mesocolon and extending to within less than 0.1 em. of the inked free radial serosal surface surface of the attached mesocolon inked orange and surface of free serosal surface inked black . In addition, the tumor extends through the wall of the colon and that of the attached additional segment of small bowel to within 0.15 em. of the mucosal surface of the additional segment. The uninvolved ileal and colonic mucosa is unremarkable glistening tan pink with regular folds and the walls average 0.5 em. in thickness. No additional mass lesion or abnormality is identified. No appendix is present. The aforementioned ovary and tubal segment is not involved by tumor, associated tofith the specimen solely by adhesions. The ?? is GROSS DESCRIPTION pale tan with identifiable corpora albicantia. Several soft to slightly rubbery pale tan tissues in keeping with lymph nodes measuring up to 1.4 ern. in greatest dimension are recovered from the attached mesocolon and mesentery. Representative sections are submitted in 15 blocks as labeled. BLOCK SUMMARY: 1 -Margin; 2 and 3 -tumor full thickness through mesocolon to surface of mesocolon inked orange; point of continuity inked red; 4 and 5-tumor full thickness to inked free radial serosal surface; 6 -tumor full thickness to attached additional small bowel segment; 7 -ICB; 8 -tumor to normal ileum and normal colon; 9 -random ileum; 10 -random colon; 11 -adhesed ovary and tube segment; 12 and 13 -eight v1hole lymph nodes per cassette; 14 and 15 -one bisected lymph per cassette. MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION Histologic type: Adenocarcinoma with focal mucinous differentiation. Histologic grade: Poorly differentiated. Primary tumor pT: Tumor has extended through the wall of the colon into the wall of the adjacent small intestine pT4. Proximal margin: Negative. Distal margin: Negative. Circumferential radial margin: Negative. Vascular invasion: Negative. Regional lymph nodes pN : Fifteen mesenteric lymph nodes are free of metastatic carcinoma pNO. Non-lymph node pericolonic tumor: Absent. Distant metastasis pM : Cannot be assessed pMX. Other findings: Right ovary and fallopian tube adhesed to the colon without evidence of involvement by tumor. MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION 5, 3 DIAGNOSIS Terminal ileum right colon with attached small bowel and right ovary and fallopian tube, en bloc resection: Invasive poorly differentiated colonic adenocarcinoma with focal mucinous differentiation extending through the wall of the colon into the wall of the adhesed small bowel segment. Tumor also extends across the ileocecal valve into the terminal ileum. Proximal, distal and radial margins of resection are free of tumor. Fifteen mesenteric lymph nodes without evidence of metastatic carcinoma 015. Adhesed right fallopian tube and ovary without evidence of involvement by tumor. MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION Histologic type: Adenocarcinoma with focal mucinous differentiation. Histologic grade: Poorly differentiated. Primary tumor pT : Tumor has extended through the wall of the colon into the wall of the adjacent small intestine pT4. Proximal margin: Negative. Distal margin: Negative. Circumferential radial margin: Negative. Vascular invasion: Negative. Regional lymph nodes pN : Fifteen mesenteric lymph nodes are free of metastatic carcinoma pNO. Non-lymph node pericolonic tumor: Absent. Distant metastasis pM : Cannot be assessed pMX . Other findings: Right ovary and fallopian tube adhesed to the colon without evidence of involvement by tumor. MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION 5, 3 DIAGNOSIS Terminal ileum right colon with attached small bowel and right ovary and fallopian tube, en bloc resection: Invasive poorly differentiated colonic adenocarcinoma with focal mucinous differentiation extending through the wall of the colon into the wall of the adhesed small bowel segment. Tumor also extends across the ileocecal valve into the terminal ileum. Proximal, distal and radial margins of resection are free of tumor. Fifteen mesenteric lymph nodes without evidence of metastatic carcinoma 015. Adhesed right fallopian tube and ovary without evidence of involvement by tumor. 
Accession Number: Type: Surgical Specimen Type: Procedure Date: Ordering CASE: PATIEN Resident: Pathologi PATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS: Report Status: Final resection A. SPECIMEN DESIGNATED LEFT LOBE LIVER WEDGE 104g including FSA: METASTATIC ADENOCARCINOMA, 5.0 em, involving liver parenchyma. Parenchymal resection margin is negative for tumor. Tumor is 1.0 ern frqm the parenchymal resection margin. Hepatic steatosis, mild. B. SPECIMEN DESIGNATED SIGMOID COLON: ADENOCARCINOMA with mucinous differentiation, high grade I poorly differentiated 5.0 em in greatest dimension. Tumor is located in sigmoid colon, forms a fungating mass, is ulcerative, and has an infiltrating border. Tumor invades through muscularis propria into serosa. Resection margins are -negative for tumor. Invasive tumor is 5.0 ern from the 4.9 ern stapled resection margin, 7.0 em from the 3.6 em stapled resection margin, 2.6 em from the mesenteric resection margin, and 0.1 em from the serosal surface. Lymphovascular invasion is not identified. Extramural venous invasion is not identified. Perineural invasion is not identified. Peritumoral lymphoid response including Crohns-like infiltrate is not present. Residual adenoma is absent. Tattoo. Regional lymph nodes positive:total: 2:17. AJCC Classification 6th edition: pT3c N1 Ml. C. SPECIMEN DESIGNATED PROXIMAL DONUT: Portion of colonl negative for tumor. D. SPECIMEN DESIGNATED DISTAL DONUT: Portion of colon, negative for tumor. CLINICAL DATA: History: Colon cancer. Operation: LaparoscoPYI wedge resection L lower ,lobe of liver and low anterior resection. Operative Findings: Not provided. Clinical Diagnosis: Colon Ca. TISSUE SUBMITTED: A1 left lobe liver wedge FS and Tissue Bank . B2 sigmoid colon -Tissue Bank. C3 proximal donut. D4 distal donut. O.R. CONSULTATION: SPECIMEN LABELED 1 -LEFT LOBE LIVER WEDGE FSA: Metastatic adenocarcinoma. Surgical resection margin I negative for tumor. Page: r of3 The senior physrcian certifies that heshe personally conducted a gross andor microscopic examination of the described specimens and rendered or confirmed the rapid diagnoses related thereto. GROSS DESCRIPTION: The specimen is received fresh, in four parts, each labeled with the patients name and unit number. Part A, Ileft lobe liver wedge, consists of a 100.4-g liver wedge resection 9.0 x 7.2 x 4.2 em with a cauterized parenchymal resection margip 9.0 x 4.2 em, inked blue. On cut sectioning, there is a Whitetan focally approximately 10 necrotic tumor 5.0 x 4.5 x 3.0 em that grossly abuts the liver capsule inked black and is located 1.0 em to the parenchymal resection margin. A representative section of the parenchymal resection margin is submitted as FSA. A representative section of tumor and normal liver is submitted for tissue banking. Representative sections are submitted for histological examination. Micro A1: FSA remnant, 1 frag, II1II Micro A2: Tumor, quick fix, 2 frags, l1li Micro A3: Tumor and capsule and tumor and uninvolved liver parenchyma, 2 frags, RSS. Micro A4: uninvolve liver, 1 frag, l1li Part B, sigmoid colon, consists of an unoriented segment of colon 16.8 x 2.9 em in diameter with two stapled resection margins 4.9 em and 3.6 cm, both inked black. The specimen is open to reveal a centrally ulcerated mass 5.0 x 4.0 x 1.2 cm with raised borders that is 5.0 em to the 4.9 em stapled resection marginl 7.0 em from the 3.6 em stapled resection margin, and 2.6 em to the mesenteric resection margin 16.8 x 2.3 em, inked orange. There are two tanblack tattoos 1 5.0 x 2.5 ern and 24.0 x 3.5 ern. Tattoo 1 is located 2.6 em to the 4.9 em stapled resection margin and 1.2 ern from the ulcerated mass. Tattoo 2 is located 4.1 ern to the 3.6 em stapled resection margin and 1.2 em from the centrally ulcerated mass. Tattoos 1 and 2 are located 7.2 em from each other and are on opposite sides of the ulcerated mass. Underlying the tattoo 1 is a submucosal firm nodule 0.8 x 0.8 em that is located 0.8 em from the 4.9 em stapled resection margin and 4.0 em to the ulcerated mass. Underlying tattoo 2 is a submucosal nodule 1.0 x 0.8 em located 6.1 ern to the 3.6 ern stapled resection margin and 2.5 ern from the ulcerated mass. There is an area of serosal puckering immediately deep to the centrally ulcerated mass 1.5 x 0.5 cm that is located 4.0 em from the mesenteric resection margin, 7.5 em from the 4.9 em stapled resection margin, and 7.0 em from the 3.6 ern stapled resection margin. Gross photos are taken and representative sections are submitted for histological examination. Micro B1: 4.9 em stapled resection margin to include 0.8 cm submucosal nodule; perpendicular, 1 frag, Micro B1: 3.6 em stapled resection margin, perpendicular1 frag, II1II Micro B3: Remainder of 0.8 em submucosal nodl fragl Micro B4: 1.0 em submucosal nodule, 2 frags, ..... Micro B5: Mesenteric resection margin, perpendicular, 1 frag, l1li lillfo B6: Tumor and serosa, deepest extent of invasion, perpendicular, 1 frag, Micro B7: Tumor and adjacent uninvolved mucosa closest to 3.6 em stapled resection margin, 1 frag, .... o B8: Tumor and mucosa closest to 4.9 em stapled resection margin, 1 frag, Micro B9: Tumor, 2 frags,1IIII Micro Bl0: ? matted lymph nodes 1.8 x 1.5 x em, bisected, 1 frag,1IIII Micro Bl1: 5 lymph node candidates,S frags, Micro B12: 5 lymph node candidates, 5 frags, Micro B13: 4 lymph node candidates, 4 frags, Micro B14-B17: Pericolonic adipose tissue, 1 frag each, II1II Part C, proximal donut, consists of a circular tanpink soft tissue fragment 1.1 x 1.6 em in diameter that is attached to metallic anvil and contains a Page: 2 of3 Pathology Report e..-- .. ,- ;.-, .. ,,,-,,,,,..,,--e,,,.-,,-:..,.:,..,,,,,,..----,,,,,,,,,,,,----.--:.o-,,:,:,.-::...,.-....,---..., ... ... black stitch. The specimen is entirely submitted for histological examination. Micro Cl: Proximal donut, 1 frag,1III Part Df distal donutll, consists of a tanyellow soft tissue 1.5 x 1.2 x 0.5 em which is entirely submitted. Micro D1: Distal donut, 1 trag, l1li CASE NUMBER-By hisher signature below, the senior physician certifies that heshe personally conducted a microscopic examination llgross only exam if so stated of the described specimens and rendered or confirmed the diagnosises related thereto. Final Diagnosis by Electronically signed on IIIIIIIIIII Page: 3 of3 
 SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT .... Clinical Diagnosis  History: Moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma in the sigmoid colon. No history of chemoradiation. Specimens Submitted: 1: SP: Sigmoid colon; resection 2: SP: Proximal margin 3: SP: Distal margin DIAGNOSIS: 1. SP: Sigmoid colon; resection: Tumor Type: Adenocarcinoma Histologic Grade: Moderately differentiated Tumor Location: Sigmoid colon Tumor Size: Length is 1.1 cm Width is 0.7 cm Maximal thickness is 0.4 cm Tumor Budding: Absent Increased Tumor Infiltrating Lymphocytes: Absent Precursor Lesions: Not identified Deepest Tumor Invasion: Submucosa Gross Tumor Perforation: Not identified Lymphovascular Invasion: Identified Large Venous Invasion: Not Identified Perineural Invasion: Identified Surgical Margins: Free of tumor PolypsMucosa Dysplasia away from the carcinoma:  Continued on next page  Hyperpla.tic polyp; number: 1 Non-Neopla.tic Bowel: Diverticuloaia Lymph Nodea: Number with meta.taaia: 0 Total number examLned: 23 Tumor depo.ita in pericolorectal aoft tiaaue: Not Identified Tumor Staging AJCC 7th Edition : pTl Tumor invadea aubmucoaa  Lymph Node Stage AJCC 7th Bdition  : NO No regional lymph node metaataaia  2. SP: PROXIMAL MARGIN, BXCISION: BENIGN COLONIC TISSUE. 3. SP: DISTAL MARGIN, EXCISION: -BBNrGN COLONIC TISSUB. I ATTEST THAT THB ABOVB DIAGNOSIS IS BASED UPON MY PERSONAL BXAMXNATION OF THB SLIDBS ANDOR OTHER MATERIAL, AND THAT I HAVB RBVIBWBD AND APPROVBD THIS RBPORT. Groaa Deacription: 1. The apecimen ia received freah, labeled aigmoid colon and conaiata of a aegment colon meaauring 16.2em in length with a circumference of 5.0 em at the atapled re.ected margin and 4.8 em the open reaected margin. Focally hemorrhagic lobulated yellow tan adipoae ti.aue apana the length of the apecimen mea.uring up to 1.5 cm in thicknea.. The .pecimen i. opened to reveal an ulcerated ma.a leaion meaauring 1.1 em in length and 0.7 em in width. The maa. ia located 10.0 em from the atapled margin and 6.3 em from the open margin. Sectioning .how. that the tumor invade. the .ubmucoaa. The depth of invaaion ia 0.4 cm groa.ly. They i. a 0.1 cm polyp located 3.0 em from the open re.ection margin. There are aeveral diverticuli with a.aociated muacular wall and pericolic adipoae ti.aue thickening. The remaining muco.a i. groa.ly unremarkable. The attached adipoae tiaaue ia thoroughly examined and all identified lymph node. are .ubmitted. Repreaentative aection. of the apecimen are aubmitted for permanent aectiona and for TPS. Summary of aection.: S -atapled margin ahave o -open margin .have T tumor, entirely RS -0.1 em polyp and repreaentative aection from colon DIV-diverticuli LN -lymph nodea  Continued on next page  2. The specimen is received in formalin, labeled Proximal margin and consists of a silver metal anastomotic pin measuring 7.5 X 2.8 X 1.5 cm. At the center of the pin, a white plastic piece is noted. A ring of pink tan soft tissue is attached measuring 1.8 x 1.5 x 1 cm. The mucosal surface is pink tan and focally hemorrhagic and the serosal surface is pink tan and smooth. Several sutures and staples are noted. The sutures and staples are removed and the soft tissue is entirely submitted. Summary of sections: U undesignated 3. The specimen is received in formalin, labeled Distal margin and consists of a ring of pink tan soft tissue measuring 2.5 x 1.5 x 0.7 cm. Multiple sutures and staples are attached. The mucosal surface is pink tan and focally hemorrhagic. The sutures and staples are removed and the soft tissue is entirely submitted. Summary of sections: U - undesignated Summary of Sections: Part 1: SP: Sigmoid colon; resection Block Sect. Site PCs 2 div 2 5 ln 4 1 o 1 1 rs 1 1 s 1 2 t 2 Part 2: SP: Proximal margin Block Sect. Site PCs 1 U 1 Part 3: SP: Distal margin Block Sect. Site PCs 1 U 1  End of Report  
UUID:S16DE561-4A84-4E00-AFF8-CA8AS203D6D0TCGA-DM-A1HB-O1A-PRRedacted IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIi-First TumorIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII - III IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII Tumor Site: Date of Cancer Sample Procurement: Histology: Description of other histology: Grade: Mucinous: Signet Ring Feature: Histologic Heterogeneity: Host Response: Crohn s like reaction Plasma cell rich stroma Growth Pattern: Inflammatory Bowel Disease Angiolymphatic Invasion: Mutator Phenotype: Number of Slides Garland Necrosis present: TIL Cells  HPF Pathologist Comment:Transverse Colon Adenocarcinoma Moderately DifferentiatedG cv.ea muuivu , gyros rNo 0 No r No Lymphoid Aggregates r None r No3 r Yes r Yes r Yes r Expansile r invasiverExpansiler Unknownand Invasive roNo r 2.4 It.,No r No r Nor Yes r Yes r Yesr Yes r Yes r Yes Yes Focalbf8o13 3rJM rr Yesr UnknownFocal rYesr UnknownFocal r Unknown r Unknown r Unknown r Unknown r Unknown C Unknown r Unknown Criteria Diagnosis Dit repanq Primary Tumor Site Discrepancy HIPm Disc epancy PriorMalignancy Hitt ory DualSynchronous Pr ry Case is cirde: Reviewer Initialsc5 c-, 4n1 S1Nt G1f9 d Gl eq Yes11 a l- WtDat iew
Right hemicolectomy preparation with an ulcerated colon carcinoma of the histological type of a moderately differentiated, partially mucus -producing, colorectal adenocarcinoma, almost completely enveloping the blind intestine, measuring 4cm in d iameter at the widest point. Invasive spreading of tumor to the outer edges of the muscularis propria. Colon mucous membrane with a small tubular adenoma with moderate epithelial dysplasia synonymously: mild intraepithelial neoplasia. Appendix with mild fibrosis of the wall. Diagnosis: Tumor -free oral and aboral resection border as well as greater omentum. Twenty five mesocolic and mesenteric lymph nodes tumor -free with uncharacteristically reactive changes. Tumor stage therefore pT2 pN0 025 L0 V0; G2 R0. 
UUID:5AEC5E5B-8EC4.4AA6 -A195-612CFC38481F TCGA-4N-A93T-81A -PRRedacted 11111111 Ili 111IIIIIIIIIIIII111IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII111111IIMill IIIIII 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 I Hill II IN I I 1111111111111111111111111111111111 IN I III IIIIII 11111 I IIIIIIIIlIIIIIIIIIIIIl III III IIiIlIIlIIIIIIIl 111111 III IIII SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT Patient: DOB: Aged Sex: M Account: MRN: Requested by: Clinical Data :Ascending colon massPatient i Right colon with appendix ,hemicolectomy: Two adenocarcinomas proximal ascending .and distal ascending colon. Cecal tubulovillous adenoma. Unremarkable appendix. Additional tubular adenomas are identified. All margins are negative for adenoma and malignancy. SYNOPTIC REPORT Tumor site: Tumor size: Histologic type: Histologic grade: Extent of invasion: Tumor perforation: Margins: Proximal margin: Distal margin: Circumferential radial margin: Closest margin: Lymphovascular invasion: Perineural invasion: Treatment effect: Regional lymph nodes: Pathologic Tumor Stage:Accession: Date Collected: Date Received: Date Reported: .Tc v 3 3 Z-IJ Proximal ascending colon larger mass and distal ascending smaller mass 4.2 cm and 4.Ocm Adenocarcinoma Low grade moderately differentiated, G2 Proximal ascending tumor invades serosal surface ; the more distal tumor invades through muscularis propria into pericolonic tissue Not identified Uninvolved by invasive carcinoma RO 24.5 cm proximal tumor; 29cm distal tumor 9 cm proximal tumor; 4.5cm distal tumor 3 cm proximal and distal tumor Circumferential radial margin Absent Absent No known prior treatment Two of twenty-five lymph nodes are positive for metastatic carcinoma 225 pT4a m pN1b Immunohistochemical stains for MLH-1 ,MSH-2 ,MSH-6 and PMS -2 reveal distinct nuclear staining for all markers. These findings indicate an intact mismatch repair MMR gene function without evidence of significant microsatellite instability MSI. Although these findings make the diagnosis of hereditary non-polyposis colon cancer HNPCC or Lynch Syndrome very unlikely this patient ,approximately 5 of colorectal carcinomas with defective MMR genes and high MSI may show this apparent normal pattern of staining .Correlation with the clinical findings  family history is encouraged. Page 1 of 2SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT -CONTINUED Patient: Result ID: Accession: Pathologist, Electronic Signature SPECIMEN S SUBMITTED :GROSS DESCRIPTION Right colon: In formalin labeled right colon is a 25 cm in length segment of cecum and right colon with an attached 20 cm of terminal ileum and a 6 cm attached appendix. Within the right colon there is a 4.2 x 4 cm endophytic tumor with raised rolled borders. This tumor is 9 cm from the distal margin and 24.5 cm from the proximal margin. The tumor invades into and through the bowel wall into the pericolonic fat and is grossly 3 cm from the circumferential soft tissue margin. The tumor also appears to near the serosaperitonealized surface of the attached fat. There is an additional 4 x 3 cm polypoid mass 4.5 cm from the distal margin and 29 cm from the proximal margin. The mucosa and wall adjacent to this mass is ragged, disrupted and hemorrhagic with hemorrhage and necrosis in the surrounding pericoloic soft tissues. No gross invasion beyond the wall is noted and this mass is 6 cm from the circumferential soft tissue margin. Within the cecum there is an additional 4.5 x 2.7 x 1.8 cm exophytic polypoid mass. This mass is 17 cm from the distal margin and 22 cm from the proximal margin. Again, no invasion through the wall is noted and the mass is 9 cm from the circumferential soft tissue margin. The remaining colonic mucosa is tan-pink with several additional smaller, up to 0.6 cm, mucosal polyps and focal areas of congestion. The ileal mucosa is tan-pink with a few polypoid projections and a 2.3 x 1.3 cm flat granular area 6 cm from the proximal margin and 27 cm from the distal margin. No invasion into the mesenteric fat is noted and the lesion is 3.5 cm from the mesenteric resection margin. The cut surfaces of the appendix display a lumen lined by congested mucosa. Multiple lymph nodes are identified in the attached fat. Representative sections are submitted as labeled: A-C tumor in ascending colon to pericolonic fat and serosalperitonealized surface; D-E distal ascending colon polypoid mass with adjacent ragged hemorrhagic disrupted area; F-G cecal polypoid mass; H smaller colonic mucosal polyps; I flat and granular irregular area in small bowel; J small bowel mucosa with small polypoid projections; K distal margin and en face circumferential soft tissue margin; L proximal margin and appendix; M six lymph nodes; N six lymph nodes; 0 six lymph nodes; P six lymph nodes. CPT CODE S: ICD-9 CODES: 88342 x4, 88309 , 8721 1539 END OF REPORTFACILITY: crlterla Diagnosis DiscrepancyYes Primary Tumor Site Discrepancy Case is circle:Prior Malignancy History DualSynchronous Primary NeiHIPAA Discrepancy Reviewer Initials9
QUID,FS78AE22-66A2-45CA-A82E-71F7AEFD0312 TCGA-DM-A1DS-01A-PR Redacted III II II I III I II 111111 I III IIIII I IIIII I IIIIIIIIII11111111111111111111111IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII I IM 11101111110111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111  CO- 0-3 Ctnoawun NOS d?lyo: S;tL Grd oON lirac2n ., C. ;First Tumor Tumor Site: Ascending Colon Date of Cancer Sample Procurement: Histology : Adenocarcinoma Description of other histology: Grade : Moderately Differentiated Mucinous : No r Yesr Yes Focalr Unknown Signet Ring Feature : c:.No C Yesr Yes Focalr Unknown Histologic Heterogeneity : ra No rYes C Unknown Host Response: None Crohn s like reactionOk None r Yes r Unknown Plasma cell rich stroma rNo C Yes CUnknown Growth Pattern:M- Expansile r invasiverExpansiler Unknownand Invasive Inflammatory Bowel Disease rNo rYes r-Unknown Angiolymphatic Invasion : rNo rYes r Unknown Mutator Phenotype : reNo r Yes CUnknown Number of SlidesI Garland Necrosis present : r No Yesr Yes Focalr Unknown TIL Cells  HPF 2 -- Pathologist Comment: no nI mucosa
Formatted Path Report LARGE INTESTINE TISSUE CHECKLIST Specimen type: Colectomy Specimen size: Not specifiedTumor site: ColonTumor size: 9 x 8 x 2 cmTumor features: None specifiedHistologic type: AdenocarcinomaHistologic grade: Moderately differentiatedTumor extent: Pericolonic tissuesLymph nodes: 1212 positive for metastasis Intraabdominal 1212Margins: UninvolvedEvidence of neo-adjuvant treatment: Not specifiedAdditional pathologic findings: Not specifiedComments: None Date of Procurement
Diagnosis: 2. Resected section of colon sigmoid with an ulcerated colon carcinoma characterized histologically as a moderately differentiated colorectal adenocarcinoma, clearly extending up to 11 cm to the oral resection margin, measuring a max of 3 cm i n diameter. Invasive spread of the tumor within all intestinal wall layers to the adjacent mesocolic fatty tissue. Otherwise the intestinal wall has several pseudodiverticula with chronic scarring peridiverticulitis. The preparation has a tumor -free seminal vesicle attached aborally. Oral and aboral resection margins are tumor -free. The tumor stage of the colon carcinoma described in 2 is therefore pT3, G2, R0. 
Colon resectate 18 cm in length with inclusion of a 4 cm longitudinally extended, wide, ulcerated, moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma of colorectal type with wide infiltration of the pericolic fatty tissue, circumscribed penetration of the overlying serosa and evidence of lymphangiosis carcinomatosis. Tumor -free regional lymph nodes. Tumor - free colon resection margins. Diagnosis: Tumor stage: pT4 pN0 036 pMX, G2, L1 V0
Not for Permanent Storage in Medical Records I Not Valid for Signing Pati ent MRN Date of Servic Performing Facil Ordering Provider Result Provider e , -.  SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT PROCEDURE DATE:  SPECIMEN DESCRIPTION:  Right colon  PRE-OPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:  Carcinoma, right colon  POST-OPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:  Same  CLINICAL INFORMATION:  Same  GROSS DESCRIPTION:  The specimen consists of a segment of terminal ileum, cecum, appendix and ascending colon with attached mesocolon and omentum. Multiple adhesions are seen on the surface of the specimen. The terminal ileum measures approximately 7.0 x 3.0 cm. The colonic and cecal segment measures 15.0 x 2.5 cm. An area of induration and puckering is evident on the anterior aspect just above what appears to be ileocecal valve. Opening the colon reveals a large fungating ulcerated mass measuring approximately 8.0 x 9.0 cm involving the full circumference of the colon. It has a central area of ulceration and raised irregular erythematous edges. The appendix is dilated and measures 4.0 DESCRIPTION:  Sections through the tumor demonstrate a variable pattern. In areas, it consists of atypical glandular structures formed by cells with irregular and hyperchromatic nuclei. Additionally, areas consist of poorly differentiated tumor. Here, the cells form solids nests and cords of spindle and polygonal shaped cells without gland formation. The tumor invades the muscularis from an ulcerated mucosal surface and extends into serosal tissues where it is surrounded by a desmoplastic reaction. Sections through sixteen lymph nodes disclose lymphoid hyperplasia and reactive changes, but no metastatic tumor. The resection margins are free of tumor as well. The serosal surfaces of the ;mr,pni X demonstrate chroni c i nfl ammatory changes. AGNOSIS:  ASCENDING COLON WITH CONTIGUOUS TERMINAL ILEUM, CECUM AND APPENDIX: ADENOCARCINOMA OF ASCENDING COLON MODERATE TO UNDIFFERENTIATED SIXTEEN REGIONAL LYMPH NODES FREE OF TUMOR TUMOR PERMEATES BOWEL WALL AND EXTENDS TO PERICOLIC ADIPOSE TISSUE Patient MRN Not for Permanent Storage in Medical Records  Not Valid for Signing Date of Service Performing Facility Drdering Provider Result Provider Report Name CHRONIC SEROSAL INFLAMMATION TUMOR SIZE  9.0 CM TT3,NO,MX PROXIMAL DISTAL AND RADIAL MARGINS NOT INVOLVED LYMPHATIC AND VENOUS INVOLVEMENT IS NOT SEEN .. . .. -. . ....  The histologic grade of this tumor varies from well to undifferentiated. 
Department of Cancer Pathology Examination: Histopathological examination Material: Multiple organ resection- segment of the large intestine GA-05-5541 Examination performed on: Macroscopic description: 13.3 em length of the large intestine with a segment of the mesenterium sized 15 x 10 x 2.5cm. Cauliflower-shaped tumour sized 5.9 x 4.9 x 1.3 em in the mucosa. The lesion surrounding 95 of the intestine circumference, located 3.6cm from one of the incision lines, and 6.2 em from the opposite one. Microscopic description: Adenocarcinoma tubuiopapiilare G2. infiitratio carcinomatosa telae adiposae pericolicae. Intestine ends free of neoplastic lesions. Metastases carcinomatosae in lymphonodo No 1VIII. Histopathological diagnosis: Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare coli. Metastases carcinomatosae in lymphonodo No I I VIII. G2, Dukes C, Astler-Coller C2, pT3, pN1 . YQE:,vL-.:?PAPI LL-f-Q:-- hVJ:JctfCf1011fb W ric COL-VP.J 1tTLfTic N r11PH f--DTJ c. 0 1 v r1,-, ..  ., 
For Collection of Cancerous Tissue I personally informed thiat a specimens would be collected to be used for research purposes. I reviewed thSEARCH SUBJECT INFORMATION AND CONSENT FORM with the patient and answered any questions the patient had. The patient then signed the consent form as a free and voluntary act. A copy of this .  our institution. IClinical Informa.!iii!!! Clinical Findings: Performance Scale Karnofsky Score: . . 0 o 100 Asymptomatic 80-90 Symptomatic but Fully Ambulatory 0 60-yo SymptomatIc, III bed l:ss than 50 Yo of day 040-50 Syrrmtomatic, in bed more than 50 of day, but not bed ndden 020-30 Bed Ridden Drug   To I I Dose Route Freauencv Date mmddjyyyy  I To     To  I I I To I I I  To   TYPE TYPE Current Status TYPE DYES NO Relative Diagnosis Age of Diaanosis o Negative D Positive:   c Negative D Positive:.   BIT Cell Markers: 2 Preoperative Clinical Diagnosis location of Suspected Involved lymph Nodes location of Suspected Distant Metastasis Clinical Staging ... -.  ... I  I T.3 NO M 0- Stage: lC- fTreatment Informationl Palpable, Non-Dissected Lymph Nodes Dissected Lymph Nodes Dru ITreatment . Dose Route Fre uen Date mmddyyyy  I To I    To I I  I To I I I I To  I   To   3 Pathology Form ISpecimen Informationl Collected by: Preserved by: Nonnal Diseased Normal min min min ,:, ,,,i:;::,i. ,:;.,:: .. ::;;.:,,;,;, ..  ,  !iP THOLOGICALDESCRIPrION;  ie,, .  .  . .,., ..... : .. ; . 5if,;;,. Primary Tumor Organ Size Extension of Tumor Distance to NAT fi, l?77Jir3:i! lLt: x S x 2em , .. , eau of z;C;J;:!!Z --6 em Lymph Nodes v location  Examined  Metastasized Distant Metastasis Organ Detailed location Size Pathological Staging pT . No M 0 Stage: y Notes: 4 IMicroscopic Descriptionl Cell Distribution  Structural Pattern  Diffuse Streaminq Mosaic Storiform NecroSiS-  o-4FibroSiS  4-----4- Lymphocytic Infiltration Palisading Vascular Invasion CystiC Degeneration Clusterized Bleeding Alveolar Formation Myxoid Change Indian File PsammomaCalcification Squamous -Adenomatous  - Sarcomatous  Lymphomatous  Squamoid Cell Glandular cell yJ Round Cell Large Cell Spindle Cell Cell Stratification Fibroblast Small Cell Keratin Secretion Osteoblast RS CellRS Like Desmosome Intracyt. Vacuole Lipoblast Inflam. Cell Pearl Gland formation ; Myoblast Plasma Cell Cellular Differentiation: Well Moderate Poor ! ;:;;;:i1:;:::;::,,;;:t:;;r::: ,:H;t,;:,;:: : NuCiea r Appeara nCe;;V;:J:;;iE ,y;,t ,:,,;;;:,;;;.;.i, ,; ,  Nuclear Atypia: 0 I II III Aniso Nucleosis Hyperchromatism Nucleolar Prominent Multinucleated Giant Cell Mitotic Activity Nuclear Grade: i?;;Y;f1;C. ,.,  3,0;i,;::::t,frt;x;;flv1:R;:;;;;;;!.::IH CData;;; ,:i, ,, ;; h, .,;;;;.;;:;i,Ab;:,;s.;f::;; , Ai Marker Result Value Date ER o Negative o Positive PR o Negative o Positive Her-2neu o Negative o Positive B-Cell Marker o Negative o Positive T-Cell Marker o Negative o Positive Other: o Negative o Positive Other: o Negative o Positive IFinal Pathology Repo Comments: Pathologist 5 Microscopic Appearance: ATED DIAGNOSTIC PATHOLOGY FORM . . IS 0 ogle potter,,: CELL DISTRIBUTION  - STRUCTURAL PATTERN  Diffuse - iiX Streaming Mosaic K Storiform Necrosis D Fibrosis Lymphocytic Infiltration IX Palisading Vascular Invasion 0 Cystic Deeneration Clusterized X Bleeding Alveolar Formation X Myxoid Chan2e Indian File J PsammomaCalcification 2. Cellularkalures: Squamous  -Adenomatous  -Sareonaatous  -Lymphomatous  - Squamoid Cell Glandular cell Itr Round Cell --..:a;:;e Cell Spindle Cell Cell Stratification ! Fibroblast Small Cell Keratin Secretion  Osteoblast RS CeIIlRS Like Desmosome IntracYt. Vacuole  Lipoblast Intlam. Cell Pearl Gland formation  Myoblast Plasma Cell Otherwise Specified: P6-11J;e vHk , t?eIh q. !Z!7  1JtJ    2. Cellular Dijfonntiation: I Well Moderately J. Nllclear Atvoia: Nuclar Appearance Aniso NucJeosis Hvoerchromatism Nucleolar Prominent Multinucleated Giant Cell Mitotic Activity Nuclear Grade Histological Diagnosis: NTRJ8UTOR INTEGRATED REPORT OF FINDINGS BY co ; Poor 0 I II III fV If 1f 1 X d- STAFF FOR RESEARCH USE ONLY. 
 SPECIMEN Splenic flexure please send for K- ras CLINICAL NOTES PRE- OP DIAGNOSIS: Left colon cancer. GROSS DESCRIPTION Received fresh labeled splenic flexure is a previously u nopened, 15 cm. segment of colon surfaced by smooth, glistening tan- pink serosa with a moderate amount of attached mesocolon. The undesignated margins average 4.6 cm. in circumference. Central palpale mesenteric mass is noted and the overlying surface is inked blue. On opening, there is a central, 3.8 x 3.4 cm. rubbery tan white- pink tumor mass which is equadistantly located 7.5 cm from each of the undesignated margins. On sectioning, the tumor has a maximal thickness of 2 cm. grossly extending into the muscularis to within 0.4 cm. of the inked free radial serosal suface. A portion of tumor and a portion of normal mucosa are submitted for tissue procurement as requested. No additional mass lesion or abnormality is identified. The aforementioned mesenteric mass measures 2.7 cm in greatest dimension with glistening tan- white cut surfaces and appears contigous with the aforementioned mucosal tumor, spanning an overall depth of 3.2 cm. and focally extending to within 0.1 cm. of the inked free radial serosal surface see contiguous sections blocks 5 and 6. The remaining mucosa is unremarable glistening tan pink with regular folds and the wall averages 0.5 cm. in thickness. A few soft to rubbery tan white- pink tissues in keeping with lymph nodes measuring up to 2 cm. in greatest dimension are recovered from the attached mesocolon. Representative sections are submitted in 15 blocks as labeled. RS- 15. BLOCK SUMMARY: 1 - Proximal and distal margins; 2- 6 tumor full thickness to inked free radial serosal surface cassettes 5 and 6 represent tumor to mesenteric mass with point of continuity inked green; 7 - random colon; 8 - three whole lymph nodes; 9- 12 - one bisected lymph node per cassette; 13- 15 - additional ocolon in lieu of minimal number of nodes normally required. MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION Histologic type: Adenocarcinoma Histologic grade: Moderate to poorly differentiated Primary tumor pT: Extends to the muscularis propria and into pericolonic tissue pT3 Proximal margin: Uninvolved Distal margin: Uninvolved Circumferential radial margin: Close Vascular invasion: Present Regional lymph nodes pN: Metastatic carcinoma is present in 7 of 13 pericolonic lymph nodes pN2. Non- lymph node pericolonic tumor: Extensive Distant metastasis pM: Could not be evaluated by this specimen pMX Other findings: None 5 DIAGNOSIS Colon, splenic flexure, resection: Adenocarcinoma, moderate to poorly differentiated, depth of invasion through muscularis propria. Surgical margins uninvolved. Metastatic carcinoma present in 7 of 13 lymph nodes DIAG --- End Of Report --- 
 SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT SPECIMEN A. Sigmoid colon B. Liver lesion CLINICAL NOTES PRE- OP DIAGNOSIS: Sigmoid colon cancer. FROZEN SECTION DIAGNOSIS B. Subcapsular nodule cw colonic adenocarcinoma. GROSS DESCRIPTION A. Received fresh in a container labeled sigmoid colon is a 24 cm long segment of colon, which is received open at one end, which is inked black black, and which is stapled at the opposite end, which is inked blue. It is 5 cm in circumference at the open end of the specimen, and 9 cm in circumference at the stapled end of the specimen. The serosal surface is generally tan- pink and glistening, with an area with tattoo pigmented 11 cm from the open end of the specimen. There is a palpable mass within the bowel in this area, although there is not gross tumor penetration to the serosal surface. The specimen is opened, revealing a near circumferential 7.5 x 6.5 x 1.5 cm mass lesion, coming to within 4.5 cm of the open end of the specimen. On cut suface, there is invasion of tumor through the full thickness of the bowel wall and into the surrounding adipose tissue, but the tumor is not near the radial margin. The mucosa away from this area is area is tan- pink and glistening, with multiple polyps, ranging from 0.3 cm to 0.7 cm in greatest dimension. There is no other worrisome lesion in the bowel. The adipose tissue is dissected, and multiple soft tan- pink lymph nodes are identified. RS- 16, according to the accompanying block summary, following fixation. BLOCK SUMMARY: A1 - proximal and distal resection margins; A2- A6 - polyps; A7 - radial margin; A8- A10 - tumor; A11- A15 - lymph nodes, h multiple lymph nodes per block; A16 - one sectioned lymph node. B. Received fresh in a container labeled segment for liver lesion is a wedge- shaped portion of tissue, with a generally tan glistening capsular surface, but with an area of tan- white discoloration on the capsular surface, and with the non- capsular surface of the biopsy irregulary roughened and cauterized. The specimen spans an area 2 x 1.5 x 1.1 cm. On cut surface there is a nodular area approximately 0.6 cm in greatest extent in the subcapsular region, corresponding to the discoloraton noted on the capsular surface. Two sections are submitted for frozen section, with the apparent lesion in block BFS1, and the remainder of the specimen is submitted for permanent sections one additional block. MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION The following template summarizes the findings in this case: Histologic type: Adenocarcinoma of the colon Histologic grade: Moderately differentiated Primary tumor pT: Adenocarcinoma invades through the full thickness of the bowel wall into surrounding adipose tissue pT3 Proximal margin: Negative Distal margin: Negative Circumferential radial margin: Negative Distance of tumor from closest margin: See gross description Vascular invasion: Not definitively identified Regional lymph nodes pN: pN0. Twenty- two lymph nodes are identified, and they are negative for malignancy. Distant metastasis pM: pM1. There is metastatic colonic adenocarcinoma in part B. Other findings: There are multiple hyperplastic polyps and an adenomatous polyp in the colon away from the mass lesion. The liver outside the metastasis is notable for steatosis with mild chronic inflammation and a slight increase in fibrous tissue, though this is difficult to assess given the supcapsular nature of the biopsy and being adjacent to the metastasis. There no significant stainable iron. Please note that in part B, in addition to examining HE stained sections, PAS, PAS- diastase, trichrome, reticulin, and iron- stained sections are examined. 5,4,14,15,18x5 DIAGNOSIS A. Colon, sigmoid, excision - Moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma, invading through the full thickness of the bowel wall and into surrounding adipose tissue see microscopic description. - Margins negative for malignancy. - Twenty-two lymph nodes negative for malignancy. - Hyperplastic polyps and adenomatous polyp. B. Liver, biopsy - Metastatic colonic adenocarcinoma see microscopic description. --- End Of Report --- 
CGA-A6-4105 SPECIMEN A. Right colon, segmental resection, sent for tissue procurement B. Apical lymph node c. Gallbladder CLINICAL NOTES PRE-OP DIAGNOSIS: Right colon tumor GROSS DESCRIPTION right A. Received fresh for tissue procurement labeled colon11 is a previously unopened 23 em. segment of colon with attached 9.5 em. of distal ileum surfaced 11right proximal by smooth to slightly scabrous tan pink serosa with a copious amount of attached mesentery and mesocolon. An unremarkable 5 em. in length 0.6 em. in diameter appendix is present. The proximal and distal margins measure 4.4 and 6.5 em. in circumference respectively. On opening there is a circumferential 8.0 x 5.3 em. essentially necrotic rubbery tan white-red lesion located 4 em. from the distal margin. On sectioning, the lesion has a maximal thickness of 2 em., a grossly extending through the muscularis to within 0.1 em. of the closest inked free radial serosal surface. A portion of tumor and portion of normal mucosa are submitted for tissue procurement as requested. The ileal and remaining colonic mucosa is unremarkable glistening tan pink with irregular folds and the walls average 0.6 em. in thickness. Multiple soft tan pink to slightly rubbery tan white tissues in keeping with lymph nodes measuring up to 1 em. in greatest dimension are recovered from the attached mesocolon and mesentery. Representative sections are submitted in 12 blocks as labeled. RS12. BLOCK SUMMARY: 1 Proximal and distal margin; 2-5 -tumor full thickness to inked free radial serosal surface; 6 -tumor to distal normal mucosa; 8 -random colon; 9 -appendix; 10-12 -six whole lymph nodes per cassette. . GROSS DESCRIPTION a B. Received in formalin, labeled apical lymph node11 is 1.5 x 1 x 0.9 em. rubbery pale tan-gold tissue in keeping with which is bisected and entirely submitted in one block. AS-1 C. Received in bile-stained formalin labeled gallbladder11 is a predominantly intact 8.5 x 2.9 x 2.4 em. gallbladder surfaced by smooth to focally cauterized tan-pink-red serosa with a 0.7 em. length of attached cystic duct. The lumen contains a copious amount of viscid olive green bile and multiple minute friable green-black choleliths measuring up to 0.2 em. The mucosa is velvety dark olive green, and the wall measures up to 0.5 em. Representative sections are submitted in two blocks as labeled. RS-2 BLOCK SUMMARY: 1 -cystic duct margin and gallbladder neck, 2 - body and fundus. MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION A. Microscopic examination of the right colon resection reveals: Histologic type: Invasive adenocarcinoma, not otherwise specified. Histologic grade: Moderately differentiated. Primary tumor pT : Invasive through muscularis propria into superficial fat pT3 . Proximal margin: Negative for tumor. Distal margin: Negative for tumor. Circumferential radial margin: Negative for tumor. Distance of tumor from closest margin: 4 ern. from distal margin Vascular invasion: Not identified. Regional lymph nodes pN : Eighteen lymph nodes are dissected from MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION the specimen and they are all negative for metastatic tumor pNO . Non-lymph node pericolonic tumor: Not identified. Distant metastasis pM : Could not evaluate1 pMX. Other findings: One small tubular adenoma is identified. The appendix is unremarkable. The ileocecal valve has fatty replacement. A representative tissue block A2 is sent for MSI testing as requested. This will be reported to office. B Microscopic examination of the apical lymph node reveals benign reactive follicular hyperplasia. No malignancy is identified. 01. c. Microscopic examination of the gallbladder reveals chronic inflammation and adenomyosis. 5xl1 3xl, 2xl, 3260F DIAGNOSIS A. Colon1 right, segmental resection: Invasive moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma, invasive into superficial fat pT3. Eighteen lymph nodes negative for metastatic tumor 018 pNO . Small tubular adenoma. Unremarkable appendix. Resection margins negative for carcinoma and for adenornatous epithelium. B. Apical lymph node, biopsy: Reactive follicular hyperplasia1 negative for malignancy. C. Gallbladder, excision: Chronic calculous cholecystitis. 
 Clinical Diagnosis  History: CRC of ascending colon. Specimens Submitted: lL: 2 : SP; Lymph node, DIAGNOSIS: 1. SP: Terminal il hemicolectomy: Tumor Type: -f Adenocarc Histologic Grade: Moderatel Tumor Location: Ascending Tumor Size: length is Width ia Maximal t Tumor Budding: Extensive SP: Terminal ileum, cecum, appndix, ascending colon; right hemicolectomy lleocolic; excision eum, cecum, appendix, ascending colon; right inoma y differentiated colon 3.7 om 6.6 cm hickness is 0.5 cm Increased Tumor Infiltrating Lymphocytes: P Absent recursor Leeions: Tubulovil lous adenoma Deepest Tumor Invasion: Subserosa 1 adipose tissue andor mesenteric fat Gross Tumor Perforation: Not ident - ified Lymphovascular Invasion: Suspected Large Venous Invasion: Not Ident ified Perineural Invasion: tdentified C  uxgical Margins: Free of tumor Not Ident PolypaMucosa Dysplasia away from the carcinoma: ified  Continued on next page  HNon-Neoplastic Bowel: Unremarkable Appendix: Unremarkable Lymph Nodes: Number with metastasis: 0 Total number examined: 44 ox deposits in pericolorectal soft tigsue: Not Identified Tumor Staging AJCC 7th Edition: b pt3 Tumor invades through the muscularis propria into pericolorectal tissues Lymph Node Stage AJCC 7th Edition: NO No regional lymph node metastasis Comment: Immunohistochemical staining for the tested DNA mismatch repair proteins is retained in the tumor. Sore ae om etn A ee Heh a hm OD oe De Oe Oe ine te te Ot tee Ue OO Om OO OD ee He mY me we mw my teh hee 2. LYMPH NODE, ILBOCOLIC; EXCISION: ONE BENIGN LYMPH NODE 01 Some of the immunchistochemistry and ISH tests were developed and their performance characteristics were determined by the Department of Pathology. They have not been cleared or approved by the US Food and Drug Administration. The FDA has determined that such clearance or approval is. mot necessary. These tests are used for clinical purposea. They should not be regarded as investigational or for research. This laboratory is certified under the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments of 1988 CLIA  88 as qualified to perform high complexity clinical laboratory testing. 2 I ATTEST THAT THE ABOVE DIAGNOSIS IS BASED UPON MY PERSONAL EXAMINATION OF THE SLIDES ANDOR OTHER MATERIAL, AND THAT I HAVE REVIEWED AND APPROVED THIS REPORT. 1. The specimen is received fresh, labeled Right colon and consists of a segment of tezminal ileum, cecum with attached appendix and ascending colon. The terminal ileum measures 7.5 cm in length and 4.8 cm in circumference at the proximal resected margin. The remaining colon measures 27.0 in length with a circumference of 6.6 cm at the distal resected margin. The attached appendix measures 5.3 cm in length and averages 0.6 cm in diameter. The appendiceal and intestinal serosa is pink tan and smooth. Focally hemorrhagic lobulated yellow tan adipose tissue spans the length of the  Gontinued on next page  2 mm A eee enema eeneewnnne- Page 3 of 4 specimen measuring up to 7.4 cm in thickness. The specimen is opened to reveal a 3.7 om length and 6.6 cm in width, firm, centrally cavitated, serpiginous bordered, tan-pink mass, located 16.7 cm from the distal margin. The masa occupies 100 of the luminal circumference. Sectioning reveals the mass to grossly appear to extend into and through the muscularis and possibly focally into the pericolonic adipose tissue. The depth of invasion is 0.5 om grossly. The remaining mucosa is plicated and tan-pink. The remaining specimen ia submitted for lymph node dissection. Multiple lymph nedes are identified in the attached adipose tissue and are submitted. Representative sectiona of the specimen are submitted for permanent sectiona and fox TPS. Summary of sections: P-- proximal margin shave b - distal margin shave M-- mass A - appendix representative sections RS--representative sections i LN- Lymph nodes BLN-bisected lymph nodes 2. The specimen is received in formalin, labeled Ileocolic lymph node and consists of 0.4 x 0.4 x 0.3 om, soft, irregular, tan-gray lymph node, which igs bisected to reveal smooth tan-gray cut surfaces. The lymph node is entirely aubmitted. Summary of sections: BUN -- bisected Lymph node  Summary of Sections: Part 1: SP: Terminal ileum, cecum, appendix, ascending colon; right hemicolectomy Block Sect. Site PCs L A 4 5 BLN 10 1 D 3 16 uN 27 5 M 5 1 P 3 L RS 2  Continued on next page   Part 2: SP: Lymph node, ileocolic; excision Block Sect. Site Pcs 1 BLN 2  End of Report  Page 4 of 4 2   
ITCGA : Sample ID : Diagnosis: This is a poorly differentiated mucinous adenocarcinoma of the ascending colon with a histopathological grade G3 differentiation, with necroses, with peritumorous chronic recurrent concomitant inflammation, with ulcerations of the inner tumor surface, with carcinomatous lymphangiosis, with tumor infiltration in the layers of the colon wall as far as the pericolic fatty connective tissue, with nine regional lymph node metastases 919, tumor-free overview sections from the resection margins and from the reticular fatty tissue, and also chronic appendicitis. According to these prepared sections, the tumor spread of the colon carcinoma corresponds to the tumor stage pT3, pN2, MX, L1, RO 11 Id -o -3 apy; AJVS figa3  UUID:DD52773D -9352-4DD1-84FC- 8C9BABB9CSAB TCGA-AA-AO1R-01A-PR Redacted 111111II HI1111111111111111111111111111111IIII 1111IN 11111IIII IT IN III nncY H; Friar Ata! CuaiSmchonou Yaut: svnmal-A Discre -  Oted l- QUA I- I I--...a iFIEJ  J is
SPECIMEN Right colon CLINICAL NOTES PRE- OP DIAGNOSIS: Cecal cancer GROSS DESCRIPTION Received fresh for tissue procurement labelled right colon is a previously unopened 25 cm segment of proximal right colon with attached 21 cm of distal ileum surfaced by smooth to slightly scabrous tan- pink serosa with a copious amount of attached mesocolon, mesentery, and unremarkable omentum. No appendix is identified grossly. The proximal and distal margins measure 4.5 and 10.2 cm in circumference respectively. On opening, there is a moderately well- circumscribed, 5.0 x 4.2 cm rubbery tan- white-red tumor mass located 3.5 cm distal to the ileocecal valve. A portion of tumor and a portion of normal mucosa are submitted for tissue procurement as requested. On sectioning, the tumor measures up to 0.8 cm in thickness, grossly extending into muscularis to within 0.15 cm of the inked free radial serosal surface see blocks 2- 4. Two additional sessile rubbery pale tan polypoid lesions measuring 0.4 and 1.0 cm in greatest dimension are present 8 and 2 cm distal to the aforementioned tumor see blocks 6 and 7 respectively. The ileal and remaining uninvolved colonic mucosa are unremarkable glistening tan- pink with regular folds and the walls average 0.5 cm in thickness. Multiple soft to slightly rubbery tan- pink tissues in keeping with lymph nodes measuring up to 1.4 cm in greatest dimension are recovered from the attached mesocolon and mesentery. Representative sections are submitted in 15 blocks as labelled. RS- 15. BLOCK SUMMARY: 1 - proximal and distal margins; 2- 4 - tumor full- thickness to inked free radial serosal surface; 5 - tumor to normal; 6 - small additional polypoid lesion; 7 - bisected larger additional polypoid lesion; 8 - random ileum; 9 - ICV; 10 - random colon; 11- 12 - eight whole lymph nodes per cassette; 13 - s whole lymph nodes; 14- 15 - five whole lymph nodes per cassette. MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION Histologic type: Invasive adenocarcinoma, not otherwise specified. Histologic grade: Moderately differentiated. Primary tumor pT: Tumor invades into muscularis propria, no invasion into pericolonic fat is identified and the serosal surface is negative for tumor pT2. Proximal margin: Negative for tumor. Distal margin: Negative for tumor. Circumferential radial margin: Not truly applicable, but the serosal surface is negative for tumor. Distance of tumor from closest margin: 20 cm from distal margin Vascular invasion: Not identified. Regional lymph nodes pN: Twenty- six lymph nodes are dissected from the specimen. They are all negative for metastatic tumor pN0. Non- lymph node pericolonic tumor: Not identified. Distant metastasis pM: Could not evaluate, pMX. Other findings: One tubular adenoma is identified and one serrated adenoma is identified. Random sections of colon and small intestine are unremarkable. 5x1, 3260F DIAGNOSIS A. Colon, right, ileocolectomy: Invasive adenocarcinoma, moderately differentiated, invasive into muscularis propria pT2. Twenty- six lymph nodes negative for metastatic tumor pN0. One tubular adenoma and one serrated adenoma. See Microscopic description. --- End Of Report --- 
Path First Tumor Tumor Site: Ascending Colon Date of Cancer Sample Procurement: Histology: Adenocarcinoma Description of other histology: Grade: Moderately Differentiated Mucinous:C No r Yes FocalYesC Unknown Signet Ring Feature: r No r Yes C YesFocalC Unknown Histologic Heterogeneity: r No C Yes r Unknown Host Response: None Crohns like reaction r None C Yes C Unknown Plasma cell rich stroma C No CYes r Unknown Growth Pattern: C Expansile re Invasive r Expansile C Unknownand Invasive Inflammatory Bowel Disease r No CYes rUnknown Angiolymphatic Invasion: C No r Yes C Unknown Mutator Phenotype: r No Yes C Unknown Number of Slides 1 Garland Necrosis present: C No r Yes C YesFocalC Unknown TIL Cells  HPF I Pathologist Comment: UUID:1B9E9C45 -C8A3-4CF4-AB47- 965056517D4D TCGA-DM-A285 -01A-PR Redacted III11111 IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII11IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII11111111III II I IIIII I III I I IIUI II I II III II 111111 I I IIIIIII I I III I I III IIIII  Cb-o -3 if: 4S f Cavr Cie,a- Jk1d?63 Criteria Diagnosis Uiscrep,ncy Primary Tumor Site Discrepancv 111PAA DSUepan: y  Prior M.1..- y Nish Dual,Sy r irrorcus Pri ;narv No Use iseirnl- : QUAUF:ED  Reviever Initlrls ate R.slew,Yes
For Collection of Cancerous Tissue I personally informed this  hat a specimens would be collected to be used for research purposes. I reviewed the  SEARCH SUBJECT INFORMATION AND CONSENT FORM with the patient and answered any questions the patient had. The patient then signed the consent form as a free and voluntary act. A copy of . our institution . Name of Physician or Study Coordinator Clinical Information  o t B rth dd H . ht o Single o Divorced 0 Widow HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS Chief Complaints: Symptoms: Clinical Findings: Performance Scale KarnOfSlY Score: o 100 Asymptomatic 0 80-90 SyPt matic but Fully Ambulatory 0 60-70 Symptomatic, ill bed le54 than 50 of day 40-50 S m tomatlc, In b d more than 50 of da . but not bed ridden 020-30 Bed Ridlen I I CURRENT MEDICATIONS Drua Dose R oute Freauency Date mmddyyyy I  To I I I I To I I I I To I I   To    I To  I SOCIAL HISTORY Occupation: Environmental Hazards: Smokina Historv Current Status I TYPE Packsdav Duration I When Ouit DYES lI NO I yrs I vr Alcohol Consumption Current Status I TYPE Drinksdav Duration I When Ouit o YES iii NO I yrs I vr Drug Use Current Stltus I TYPE Freauencv Duration I When Quit DYES lSNO I yrs I yr FAMILY MEDICAL HISTORY Relative Diaanosis Age of Diagnosis o Positive:   BIT Cell Markers: 2 T Stage: tTreatment Informationl :o.UKJ AI, TREArMteNT orA I Tumor I J r,:,jnn  , -A I JJ8J C  I of Tumor  I IpIlon I 1 of lymph Lymph Nodes Lymph Nodes IL M, I Sur!,jio..dl Staging T, Ne Mb TT, -Lt- NEOA nJTj y teN! T PY Cho n,  u. , Drug, Dose IlntA I 3 I Size 1-..:; x 2x ?cm  of Lymph Size , or Date   To     To I  I  To   I I To l  I  To I I Pathology Form !Specimen Information l Collected by: Preserved by: SPECIMEN TYPE  of sam les rovided BloodSerumlPlasma Normal Diseased Normal 2 Time to LN2 Time to Formalin Time to LN2 min min min PATHOLOGICAL DESCRIPTION PrimarY Tumor Organ Size Extension of Tumor Distance to NAT ;;rn  .,., 3x2x..?em 6 em Lymph Nodes Location  Examined  Metastasized Distant Metastasis Organ Detailed Location Size Pathological Staging pT 3 tb Mo Stage: IC,4. Notes:  I  I I I I 4 LIDATED DIAGNOSTIC PATHOLOGY FORM Microscopie Appearance: . IS 0 oglC4 patrn: llltl, CELL DISTRIBUTION  . STRUCTURAL PATTERN Diffuse  Streaming Mosaic l! Storiform Necrosis  Fibrosis !,-h9lic Infiltration Palisadin2 Vascular Invasion X Cystic Degeneration Clusleriud  Bleeding Alveolar Fonnation B f1ysoid Chae Indian File lii PsammomaCalcification 2. Cuar .Halurs: uamous  . Adenomatoul  . S.RO .... fous  . Lymphomatou. Squamoid Cell Glandular cell Round Cell LacgcCeU ndleCell Cell Stratification Fibroblast Small Cell Keratin Secretion y Osteoblast RS CcIIlRS Like Desmosome Intracy!, Vacuole V Ljpoblast Inflam. Cell Pearl Gland formation 10 t.!,,oblast Plasma Cell  .  . Otherwise Specified: A tTL 11-f tl PJ4-!7 Do ;Ji!Z tNLAA-!1JJ J; t1 , , 2. Cduar Di.l.frnntiatlon: I Well I Poor J. Nuclear Atypia: .. Nudnr Appnr.nce 0 I II Aniso NucJeosis Hvnerchromatism Nucleolar Prominent Multinucleated Giant Cell , Mitotic ActivitY NudearGnde . AJ.J.Wro1..LaAtd ;to...m.fI,ilL-U!:fLL--; Histological Diagnosis:  CONT7.1BUTOR .INTEGRATED REpORT OF RNDINGS BY PATHOL,OGJrsT ,STAfF FOR RESEARCH USE ONLy. III 
TCGA-05-6529 page 1 I 1 Examination: Histopathological examination Material: Multiple organ resection- segment of the large intestine Physician in charge: Material collected on: Material received on: Expected time of examination: Clinical diagnosis: Examination performed on: Macroscopic description: 17 em length of the large intestine with mesentery sized 16 x 6 x 3cm, a 7 em segment of the small intestine, and a 6.7 em appendix. Ulcerous tumour found in the mucosa1 sized 4.7 x 4 x 112 em. The lesion placed 7.0 em from the proximal cut end1 12.0 em from the distal cut end1 and 0 em from the Baughin valve. Minimum side margin is 5.0 em. Microscopic description: Adenocarcinoma tubuloapap!llare Gl. lnfiltratio carcinomatosa tunicae muscularis propriae et telae adiposae pericolicae. Minimum side margin is 5 em. Incision lines free of neoplastic lesions. Lymphonodulitis reactiva lymphonodorum No XIX. Histopathological diagnosjs Adenocarcinoma tubuloapil,lare coli Gl; Dukes 81 Astler-Coller B2; pT3; pNO. Tubulopapillary MS!.6ii:qfilliJi CONTACT YOUR DOCTOR WITH THIS REPORT! 
 SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT .... Clinical Diagnosis  History: with a history of polyps and was under surveillance, descending colon polyp biopsy showing invasive adenocarcinoma. Specimens Submitted: 1: SP: Left colon; extended hemicolectomy DIAGNOSIS: 1. SP: Left colon; extended hemicolectomy: Tumor Type: Adenocarcinoma Histologic Grade: Moderately differentiated Tumor Location: Descending colon Tumor Size: Length is 3.5 cm Width is 2.2 cm Maximal thickness is 0.3 cm Tumor Budding: Absent Increased Tumor Infiltrating Lymphocytes: Absent Precursor Lesions: Tubulovillous adenoma Deepest Tumor Invasion: Muscularis propria Gross Tumor Perforation: Not identified Lymphovascular Invasion: Not identified Large Venous Invasion: Not Identified Perineural Invasion: Not identified Surgical Margins: Free of tumor PolypsMucosa Dysplasia away from the carcinoma: Tubular adenoma; number: 2 Non-Neoplastic Bowel:  Continued on next page  ------------------------------------------------------------ Page 2 of 3 Unremarkable Lymph Nodes: Number with metastasis: 0 Total number examined: 12 Tumor deposits in pericolorectal soft tissue: Not Identified Tumor Staging AJCC 7th Edition: pT2 Tumor invades muscularis propria Lymph Node Stage AJCC 7th Edition: N0 No regional lymph node metastasis -------------------------------------------------------- I ATTEST THAT THE ABOVE DIAGNOSIS IS BASED UPON MY PERSONAL EXAMINATION OF THE SLIDES ANDOR OTHER MATERIAL, AND THAT I HAVE REVIEWED AND APPROVED THIS REPORT. Gross Description: 1. The specimen is received fresh, labeled left hemicolectomy, extended left stitch marks proximal  and consists of a segment of colon measuring 49 cm in length with a circumference of 4.5 cm at the distal resected margin. Focally hemorrhagic lobulated yellow tan adipose tissue spans the length of the specimen measuring up to 4 cm in thickness. The specimen is opened to reveal a mass lesion measuring 3.5 cm in length and 2.2 cm in width. The mass is located 36 cm from the proximal margin and 4.3 cm from the distal margin. Sectioning shows that the tumor invades the muscularis propria. The depth of invasion is 0.5 cm grossly. The remaining mucosa shows two small polyps measuring 0.3 cm in greatest dimensions located 17 cm proximal to the tumor. The attached adipose tissue is thoroughly examined and all identified lymph nodes are submitted. Representative sections of the specimen are submitted for permanent sections and for TPS. Summary of sections: P - proximal margin shave D - distal margin shave T - tumor P - polyps RS -representative sections LN - lymph nodes BLN - bisected lymph nodes  Continued on next page  ------------------------------------------------------------ Page 3 of 3 Summary of Sections: Part 1: SP: Left colon; extended hemicolectomy Block Sect. Site PCs 1 D 1 7 LN 13 2 P 2 1 RS 1 4 T 4  End of Report  
Resected section of colon sigma with an ulcerated colon carcinoma of histological type of a moderately differentiated colorectal adenocarcinoma, extending a maximum of 3 cm to a resection margin, and measuring 2.5 cm in diameter at the widest point. Invasive spreading of the tumor within all intestinal wall layers up to the bordering mesocolic adipose tissue, and with lymphangitic tumor branches in the margin area. Diagnosis: Tumor -free in the region of the oral and aboral resection margin. Tumor stage therefore pT3 pN2 418 L1 V0; G2, R0. 
L ARGE INTESTINE TISSUE CHECKLIST Specimen type: Colectomy Specimen size: Not specifiedTumor site: Sigmoid colonTumor size: 5 x 4 x 1 cmTumor features: None specifiedHistologic type: AdenocarcinomaHistologic grade: Moderately differentiatedTumor extent: Pericolonic tissuesLymph nodes: 66 positive for metastasis Intraabdominal 66Margins: Not specifiedEvidence of neo-adjuvant treatment: Not specifiedAdditional pathologic findings: Not specifiedComments: None
Diagnosis diagnoses : Right hemicolectomy preparation with an ulcerated colon carcinoma characterized histologically as a moderately differentiated colorectal adenocarcinoma, located at the junction between the cecum and the ascending colon, extending to B auhins valve and measuring 5 cm in diameter at the widest point. Invasive tumor spread to the adjoining mesocolic fatty tissue and beneath the serosa. Oral and aboral resection margins, appendix and greater omentum are all tumor -free. 22 mesenteric and mesocolic lymph nodes are tumor -free and with uncharacteristic reactive changes. Stage of tumor is therefore: pT3 pN0 022; L0 V0; G2 
 Examination: Histopathological examination Material: Total organ resection- colon and caecum Physician in charge: Material collected on: Material received on: Expected time of examination: Clinical diagnosis: Cancer of the hepatic flexure. Examination performed Macroscopic description: pagel2 TCGA-05-6538 A 11,2 em length of large intestine with a fragment of mesentery sized 16 x 9 x 3 em, an 8 em section of a and 5.5 em appendix. Ulcerous tumour sized 5.4 x 6.9 x 1.8 em In the mucosa. The lesion surrounds 100 of the Intestine circumference, removed 9, 3 em from the proximal incision, 3.1 em from the distal incision, and 1.3 em from the Bauhins valve. Microscopic description: Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare partim mucinosum G3. lnfiltratio carcinomatosa profunda tunicae muscularis proprlae et telae adiposae mesenterll perlcolicae. Incision lines are free of neoplastic lesions. Metastases carcinomatosae in lymphonodis No XXIV. lnfiltratio carcinomatosa capsulae lymphonodorum et telae adlposae perinodalis. Emboliae carcinomatosae. Appendix- Appendicitis follicularis. Histopathologic diagnosis: Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare partim mucinosum coli. Metastases carcinomatosae in lymphonodis No XXIV. Tubulopapillar and partially mucinous adenocarcinoma of the colon. Cancer metastases In lymph nodes No XXIV. G3, Dukes C, Astler-Coller C2, pT3, pN2. CONTACT YOUR DOCTOR WITH THIS REPORTI 
 page 1 I 1 Examination: Histopathological examination CGA-05-6535 Material: Partial organ resection- colon ascending Material collected on: Material received on: Expected time of examination: Clinical diagnosis: Examination performed on: Macroscopic descriotion: A 15.6 em length of large intestine with periintestinal fat tissue sized 16.3 x 8.4 x 3.3 em and appendix of Scm. Ulcerous tumour sized 6.3 x 6.2 x 2.8 em in the mucosa. Tumor covers 100 of the circumference of the Intestine and narrows its lumen. Microscopic description: Adenocarcinoma tubulopapiliare G2. Tubulopaplllar adenocarcinoma G2 lnfiltratio carcinomatosa telae adiposae pericolicae. Incision Jines free of neoplastic lesions. Outside the tumor: Adenomata tubulopapillaria cum dysplasia gradus minoris Metastases carcinomatosae in lymphonodo No 1VI. Cancer metastases in lymph nodes No 1VI Emboliae carcinomatosae Histopathological diagnosis Adenocarcinoma tubulopapiliare coli. Tubulopaplllar adenocarcinoma of the colon G2, Dukes C, Astler Colier C2, pT3, pN1 
History: right colon mass Specimens Submitted: 1: SP: Colon, right; hemicolectom DIAGNOSIS: 1. SP: Colon, right; hemicolectomy: Tumor Type: Adenocarcinoma --------tj Histologic Grade: TUmor -t TUmor Moderately differentiated Location: Ascending colon Size: Length is 5.5 em Width is 6.5 em Tumor Budding: Absent Increased Tumor Infiltrating Lymphocytes: Absent Precursor Lesions: Not identified Deepest TUmor Invasion: Subserosal adipose tissue andor mesenteric fat Gross Tumor Perforation: Not identified Lymphov8scular Invasion: Identified Large Venous Invasion: Not Identified Perineural Invasion: Not identified r-surgical Marginsl L Free of tumor lypSMucosa Dysplasia away from the carcinoma:  Tubular adenoma; number: 2 Hyperplastic polyp; number: 1 Non-Neoplastic Bowel: Unremarkable  Continued on next page  , ------------------------------------------------------------ Page 2 of 3 Appendix: C Fibrous obliteration of the lumen Lymph Nodes I Number with metastasis: 1 Total number examined: 24 Tumor Staging AJCC 7th Edition: ;r deposits in pericolorectal soft tissue; Identified pT3 Tumor invades through the muscularis propria into pericolorectal tissues h Node Stage AJCC 7th Edition: Nl Metastasis in 1-3 regional lymph nodes ..... .;.. .---.,-... -..  .. --.  .......  ....  .......... . PENDING K-RAS. I ATTEST THAT THE ABOVE DIAGNOSIS IS BASED UPON MY PERSONAL EXAMINATION OF THE SLIDES ANDOR OTHER MATERIAL, .AND THAT I HAVE REVIEWED AND APPROVED THIS REPORT. Result Gross Description: special Stain KRAS Conunent 1 .The specimen is received fresh, labeled Right hemicolectomy colon and consists of a segment of terminal ileum, cecum with attached appendix and ascending colon, The terminal ileum measures 7.5 cm in length and 3.5 cm in circumference at the proximal resected margin. The remaining colon measures 19 in length with a circumference of 8 em at the distal resected margin. The attached appendix measures 6.5 cm in length and averages 0.7 cm in diameter. The appendiceal and intestinal serosa is pink tan and smooth. Focally hemorrhagic lobulated yellow tan adipose tissue spans the length of the specimen measuring up to 5 cm in thickness. The specimen is opened to reveal a circumferential, centrally ulcerative, fungating, brown tan tumor measuring 5.5 cm in length, 6.5 cm in width, and 2.0 cm in height. On cut section of the tumor, it measures 2.5 cm in maximum depth and abuts the black inked radial margin. The tumor is located 6.3 cm from the ileocecal valve and 6 cm from the distal resected margin. Also identified, 4.0 cm from the ileocecal valve and 4.2 em from the main tumor mass, there is a brown-tan polypoid structure measuring 1.8 x 0.8 x 0.7 cm. The remaining mucosa shows brown-tan folded appearance and several polypoid areas measuring up to 0.4 x 0.3 cm in greatest dimensions, which are entirely Submitted. The specimen is submitted for lymph node dissection. The attached adipose tissue is thoroughly examined and all identified lymph nodes are submitted. Representative sections of the specimen are submitted  Continued on next page     ------ Page 3 of 3 for permanent sections and for TPS. Summary of sections; PM -proximal margin shave DM -distal margin shave T -tumor box 11 and 12, 13 and 14 are full-thickness section of tumor with underlying cause of lymph node, bisected APP -appendix representative sections RS -representative sections LN -lymph nodes LPOL-largest polypoid area POL-polypoid areas Summary of Sections: Part 1: SP: Colon, right; hemicolectomy Block Sect. Site PCs 2 app 2 1 dm 1 7 LN ,. 2 lpol 2 1 pm 1 1 pol 1 1 rs 1 6 T 6  End of Report  Specimens Submitted: 1: DM SUBMITTED 10 UNSTAINED SLIDES AND 1 HE, RIGHT COLON Test Performed I KRAS Gene Exon 2 mutation analysis codons 12 and 13 DNA quality; good. Methodology: PCR was performed to amplify exon 2 of the KRAS gene from genomic DNA prepared from the submitted tissue. The PCR product was analyzed on an ADI 3730 DNA sequencer and the sequences were compared to control sequences. , DIAGNOSTIC INTERPRETATION: Negative for KRAS exon 2 mutation. Technical sensitivity: This assaycannot detect a ERAS exon 2 mutation if the proportion of tumor cells in the sample studied is less than 25. 1. This result cannot be used as sole evidence for or against cancer and has to be interpreted in the context of all available clinical and pathOlogical information. 2. This test was developed and its performance characteristics determined by the Laboratory of Diagnostic Molecular Pathology. It has not been cleared or approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration FDA. The FDA has determined that such clearance is not necessary. This test is used for clinical purposes. Pursuant to the requirements of CLIA  88, our laboratory has established the accuracy and precision of this test. This test has been approved by as a laboratory specific assay. I ATTEST THAT THE ABOVE DIAGNOSIS IS BASED UPON MY PERSONAL EXAMINATION OF  Continued on next page  ------------------.----------------------------------------- Page 2 of 3 THE SLIDES ANDOR OTHER MATERIAL, AND THAT I RAVE REVIEWED AND APPROVED THIS REPORT. ProceduresAddenda Addendum Pate Ordered: Date ::;:!::;;;: Date R Addendum Diagnosis NONE OF THESE MUTATIONS WERE DETECTED IN THE TUMOR. CLINICAL PANEL Gene Codon BRAF V600 EGFR L8S8 INVESTIGATIONAL PANEL Gene Codon Gene Codon AKT1 E17 EGFR L861 BRAE G469 ERBB2 L755 BRAE D594 ERBB2 D769 EGFR E709 ERBB2 Vl77 EGFR G719 KRAS 061 EGFR D761 KRAS K1l7 EGFR 5768 KRAS A146 EGFR R776 MEK1 QS6 EGFR T790 MEK1 .S7 EGFR T854 MEK1 D67 Gene Codon mAS G12 NRAS G13 NRAS 061 PIK3CA R88 PIK3CA N345 PIK3CA C420 PIK3CA E542 PIK3Ck E545 PIK3CA M1043 PIK3CA HI047 Diagnostic sensitivity: This finding does not exclude the possibility of other mutations. Technical sensitivity: This test may not detect certain mutations if the proportion of tumor cells in the sample studied is less than 10. Test Performed: Sequenom mass-spectrometry genotyping for specific mutations in 8 genes: AKT1, BRAE, EGFR, ERBB2, KRAS, MEKl MAP2Kl, NRAS, and PIK3CA Methodology: The specific mutations are detected by amplification of the corresponding exons by polymerase chain reaction PCR, followed by a single base extension at the site of the point mutation. The single base extension product is detected by tandem mass-spectrometry on a Sequenom MassArray Spectrometer. Addendum Comment PLATE PIO-42  Continued on next page  w  w    Page 3 of 3 This result cannot be used as sole evidence for or against cancer and has to be interpreted in the context of all available clinical and pathological information. determined, by It has not been cleared or Drug FDA. The FDA has such clearance is not necessary. This test is used for clinical purposes. Pursuant to the requirements of eLIA ur laboratory has established the accuracy and precision of this test. The results of the investigational panel are for investigational use only.  End of Report  
Diagnosis diagnoses : 1. Right hemicolectomy preparation with an ulcerated colon carcinoma of the histological type of a moderately differentiated colorectal adenocarcinoma, situated in the passage between the cecum and the ascending colon and measuring 6 cm in diameter at the widest point. Invasive spreading of the tumor within all intestinal wall layers to the bordering fatty tissue. The cecum has a tubulovillous adenoma of the mucous membrane with moderate epithelial dysplasia. The resection margins and gre ater omentum are tumor -free. Two of ten lymph nodes with metastases of the colon transversum. 2. Subcapsular liver parenchyma section with a complete cirrhotic remodeling and pronounced fatty degeneration of the parenchyma fatty liver cirrhosis. Tumor stage of is therefore: pT3 pN1 210 L0 V0; G2 Follow -up report: As reported, a further lymph node preparation was carried out following acetone fixation. This revealed 31 lymph nodes ranging predominantly from very small to 0.7 cm in diameter. All lymph nod es in the histological examination were tumor -free. Therefore a final lymph node status of pN1 241 is established. 
UUID:759F9B5B -2ESC-49E6.8E9B-32B265D1BE73 TCGA-5M-AATE-01A-PR Redacted IINIINIINIIIIIIIIIIIIII,IIINNNIIIIIINIINIIII Nlm IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII Date: SPECIMEN: Ascending colon ,cecum ,terminal ileum, appendix PROCEDURE: Right hemicolectomy with terminal ileectomy MACROSCOPY -The specimen measures 22.5 cm in length and 5.5 to 7.5 cm in diameter. - The terminal ileum segment has a length of 4.5 cm and a diameter of 2.5 cm, with no identifiable macroscopic pathologic features. -The cecum contains a vegetative, infiltrative, well delimitated lesion, continuous to the lumen of the appendix and adjacent to the ileocecal valve, 5.5 cm away from the nearest surgical margin ileal margin. -The lesion measures 6.5 cm and penetrates the full thickness of the bowel wall and the two proximal thirds of the appendix. -A number of lymph nodes were dissected from the pericolic fat; diameters ranging from 0.3 to 1.1 cm. MICROSCOPIC EXAMINATION -Moderately differentiated tubular adenocarcinoma of the cecum, with extension to the appendix; -Microscopic tumor extension :tumor penetrates the full thickness of the cecum wall ,extending to the pericolic fat; -Perineural invasion :present; -Lymph-vascular invasion :present; -Moderate desmoplastic stromal reaction ,with mild tumoral lymphocytic infiltrate. - Surgical margins free of neoplastic involvement; -Number of lymph nodes examined : 15; ; -Number of lymph nodes involved: 0; -Stage :T3a pNO . 0A 16 fl PATHOLOGISTS 5jL: Jj-Aq Criteria l 4 1Yes Diagnosis Discrepancy Primary Tumor Site Discrepancy HIPAA Discrepancy Prior Malignancy History Dualsynchronous Primary No Case Is circle: Reviewer Initialsn..tnv-;a! 1 zotl1 3 FIED DISQUALIFIED Pjt ate Reviewed:No
Resected colon sigma with tumor -free oral and aboral resection margins, with a stalked, tubular adenoma with severe dysplasia synonymously: profound intraepithelial neoplasia, including a polypoid, moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma wi th infiltration of the lamina muscularis propria and not displaying any lymph node metastases in the region G2, pT2, L0, V0, R0, pN0 046. Diagnosis:
UUID:FAB79463-7351.4C25 -9AEC-7847486C7F54 TCGA-4T-AA6H -01A-PR Redacted III11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 11111111111111III 1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 IIIIII 11111111 I I II 1111111111 II 1 111111 111111111 I VIII 11111 1 11111 I IIIResults Result Data .i 4 I ACCE. I.M X10. Ent Date Component Results Component Clinical History Malignant neoplasm of sigmoid colon. Gross Exa minationLab A. Left paratu l c yst with left tubal fimbria. Received fresh and placed in formalin at is a 1.5 x 1 .5 x 1.0 cm fragment of fimbria with attache xx.0 cm paratubal cyst. The cyst is unilocular and. filled withclear serous fluid. The cyst wall is less than 0.1 cm thick and has a smooth internal lining. Representative sections are submitted, as follows: BLOCK SUMMARY : Al- fimbriate d end, bisected A2- representative sections of cyst wall A3-9- remainder of specimen B. Descendiiawwim titch marks distal. received and placed in formalin on Specimen received: D escending colon and sigmoid colon. Colon length: 21.5 cm. Tumor location: Descending colon. Tumor dimensions: 5.2 x 4.7 x 1.2 cm Tumor appearance: Exophytic, lobulated, and focally friable. On cut surface, the mass displays elongated cystic spaces within the bowel wall which are filled with. friable tumor material. Distance from, margins: Proximal: 2.8 cm. Distal: 13.5 cm. Mesenteric: 2.0 cm. Bowel. circumference at tumor site: 7.2 cm. il iferenta rcumC growth: 75. Depth of invasion: 2.2cm. Deepest invasion: Themass invades through the bowel wall., into the fat and Tumor perforation:puckers the underlying serosa inked blue. No. f Involvement o adjacent structures: No. Mesentery dimensions: 20.0 x 7.0 x 2.0 cm Serosa: The serosa is focally puckered underlying the mass blue ink . The puckering comes within 3.5 cm of the proximal margin. Lymph. nodes: Multiple lymph nodes are identified, up to 1.0 cm in greatest dimension. Page 1of4Secondary f indings : The remainder of the bowel mucosa is tan, velvety, with normal folding pattern. There is focal subraucosal tattooing, 2.5 cm proximal to the mass. Special studies prospectively ordered: No Photograph: Yes, Block diagram: No. Tissue submitted for research: Yes, tumor and normal. BLOCK SUMMARY: Bl-B2- proximal margin B3-B4- distal m rin B5-ga mass.,deepest invasion with serosa.l puckering B6-Bl0-- additional sections of mass B11- mass to closest mesenteric margin B12- representative normal colon with tattoo B13- six lymph. nodes B14- six .1yrrph nodes B15- fourlymph nodes B16- fourlymph nodes B17- fourlymph nodes B18- fourlymph nodes B19- onelymph node, bisected B20- onelymph node bisected microscopic Exam ination Microscopic examination is performed. Within part A, the fallopian tube fimbria demonstrates a focal area of mild cytologic atypic. Immunohistochemistry of this area block Al reveals weaklow cytokeratin 7, p53 and Ki67 expression. Cytokeratin 20, Pax8 and CDX2 are negative. In comparison, the tumor present in the colon demonstrates strong cytokeratin 20 and CDX2 expression and is negative for Pax8, p53, and cytokeratin 7. Ki67 is moderately elevated. Overall, the findings in the fallopian tube are felt to be secondary to cautery artifact. Dr. has reviewed parts of this case and concurs with the interpretation. Immun ohistoch emical Findings The immunoperoxidase tests reported herein were developed and their performance characteristics were determined by the Some of them may not be cleared or approvea by the G.S. Food and Drug Administration. The FDA has determined that such clearance or approval is not necessary. These tests are used for clinical purposes. They should not be regarded as investigational or for research. This laboratory is certified under the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments of 1988 CLIA as qualified to perform high complexity clinical testing. Pathologic Stage PATHOLOGIC STAGE AJCC 7th Edition: prn3 pNO pMX NOTE: Information on pathology stage and the operative procedure is transmitted to this Institutions Cancer Registry as required for accreditation by the Commission on Cancer. Pathology stage is based solely upon the current tissue specimen being evaluated, and does not incorporate information on any specimens submitted separately to our Cytology section, past pathology information, imaging studies, or clinical or operative findings. Pathology stage is only a component to be considered in determining the clinical stage, and should not be confused with nor substituted for it. Page 2 of 4The exact operative procedure is available in the sU:rgeon.s operative report. Diagnosis A. LEFT FALLOPIAN TUBE FIMBRIA AND PARATUBAL CYST, EXCISION: BENIGN PARATUBAL CYST. B.DESCENDING AND SIGMOID COLON, RESECTION: INVASIVE ADENOCARCINOMA OF THE LEFT COLON. Histologic type: Histologic Grade: Tumor size: Extent of invasion: Macroscopic Tumor Perforation: Margins: - Closest Margin: Lymphovascular Invasion: Perineural Invasion: Tumor Deposits: Tumor Infiltrating Lymphocytes : Marked Crohns-like Lymphocytic Response: Regional Lymph Nodes: Additional FindingsMUCINOUS ADENOCARCINOMA. LOW GRADE. 5.2x 4.7 x 1.2CM. TUMOR INVADES THROUGH THE MUSCULARIS PROPRIA INTO THE PERICOLONIrC ADIPOSE TISSUE. NOT IDENTIFIED. NEGATIVE. MESENTERIC, 2.0 CM.. NOT IDENTIFIED. NOT IDENTIFIED. NOT IDENTIFIED. ABSENT. PRESENT. TWENTY-FOUR LYMPH NODES, NEGATIVE FOR MALIGNANCY 024. TATTOO INK IS PRESENT. NOTE: MSI andor mismatch repair protein IHC testing will be reported separately paraffin block B6. Comment: I certify that I personally conducted the diagnostic evaluation of the above specimens and have rendered the above diagnosises. N.D. E ectronie: ay signed: Testing Performed By Lab - Abbreviation Name Lab and Collection Surgical Pathology or Result Information Abnormality Status Final resin Routine Authorizing Provider Information Name: Phone: Sur icai Pathology Order Pathology and Cytology Order: Order InformationFax: Pager: Author ing Department General SurgeryValid Dntto Ronne Source Date Released By: Order DateTime Release DateTime Start DateTime End DateTimeirector Addreq-q Priority Page 3 of 4Order Details Frequency Once Encounter View Encounter Reprint Requisition Surgical Patholoc v Order Original Order Ordered On Collection Information Collection Date Resultina Aaencv Order Provider Info Ordering User Authorizing Provider Order-Level Documents:Office phone Pagerbeeper E- AW There are no order level documents. No order transmittal information available. Order may not have completed order transmittal. Criteria Diagnosis Discrepancy Primary Tumor Site DiscrepancyDuration Priority Ioccurrence Routine der HIPAAHIPAA Discrepancy Prior Malignancy History DualSynchronous Primary Case is IcireleJ Reviewer Initial 91
 page 1  1 page 1  1 page 1  1 page 1  1 page 1  1 page 1  1 Department of Cancer Pathology Department of Cancer Pathology Department of Cancer Pathology Department of Cancer Pathology Department of Cancer Pathology Department of Cancer Pathology Department of Cancer Pathology Department of Cancer Pathology Department of Cancer Pathology Department of Cancer Pathology Department of Cancer Pathology Department of Cancer Pathology copy No. 3 Date: Date: Date: Date: Date: ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon ExaminaFon No.: ExaminaFon No.: PaKent: XXX PaKent: XXX PESEL: XXX PESEL: XXX PESEL: XXX PESEL: XXX Age: Gender : Gender : Gender : Gender : Gender : Gender : Material: 1. Total organ resecFon  specimen from the colon. Material: 1. Total organ resecFon  specimen from the colon. Material: 1. Total organ resecFon  specimen from the colon. Material: 1. Total organ resecFon  specimen from the colon. Material: 1. Total organ resecFon  specimen from the colon. Material: 1. Total organ resecFon  specimen from the colon. Material: 1. Total organ resecFon  specimen from the colon. Material: 1. Total organ resecFon  specimen from the colon. Material: 1. Total organ resecFon  specimen from the colon. Material: 1. Total organ resecFon  specimen from the colon. Material: 1. Total organ resecFon  specimen from the colon. Material: 1. Total organ resecFon  specimen from the colon. Material: 1. Total organ resecFon  specimen from the colon. Unit in charge: Unit in charge: Unit in charge: Unit in charge: Unit in charge: Unit in charge: Unit in charge: Unit in charge: Unit in charge: Unit in charge: Unit in charge: Unit in charge: Unit in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Material collected on: Material collected on: Material collected on: Material received on:Material received on:Material received on:Material received on:Material received on: Expected Kme of examinaKon: Expected Kme of examinaKon: Expected Kme of examinaKon: Expected Kme of examinaKon: Expected Kme of examinaKon: Expected Kme of examinaKon: Expected Kme of examinaKon: Expected Kme of examinaKon: Expected Kme of examinaKon: Expected Kme of examinaKon: Expected Kme of examinaKon: Expected Kme of examinaKon: Expected Kme of examinaKon: Clinical diagnosis: Cancer of the transverse colon. Clinical diagnosis: Cancer of the transverse colon. Clinical diagnosis: Cancer of the transverse colon. Clinical diagnosis: Cancer of the transverse colon. Clinical diagnosis: Cancer of the transverse colon. Clinical diagnosis: Cancer of the transverse colon. Clinical diagnosis: Cancer of the transverse colon. Clinical diagnosis: Cancer of the transverse colon. Clinical diagnosis: Cancer of the transverse colon. Clinical diagnosis: Cancer of the transverse colon. Clinical diagnosis: Cancer of the transverse colon. Clinical diagnosis: Cancer of the transverse colon. Clinical diagnosis: Cancer of the transverse colon. ExaminaKon performed on:ExaminaKon performed on:ExaminaKon performed on:ExaminaKon performed on:ExaminaKon performed on:ExaminaKon performed on:ExaminaKon performed on:ExaminaKon performed on:ExaminaKon performed on: Macroscopic descripKon : A 12 cm length of the large intesFne with periintesFnal fat Fssue sized 12.5 x 4.5 x 5 cm. Ulcerous tumour sized 6.0 x 4 x 1.6 found in the mucosa. The lesion surrounds 100 of the intesFne circumference and narrows its lumen, is located 3 cm from one of the incision lines and 3.6 cm from the opposite one. Minimum side margin is 1.3 cm.Macroscopic descripKon : A 12 cm length of the large intesFne with periintesFnal fat Fssue sized 12.5 x 4.5 x 5 cm. Ulcerous tumour sized 6.0 x 4 x 1.6 found in the mucosa. The lesion surrounds 100 of the intesFne circumference and narrows its lumen, is located 3 cm from one of the incision lines and 3.6 cm from the opposite one. Minimum side margin is 1.3 cm.Macroscopic descripKon : A 12 cm length of the large intesFne with periintesFnal fat Fssue sized 12.5 x 4.5 x 5 cm. Ulcerous tumour sized 6.0 x 4 x 1.6 found in the mucosa. The lesion surrounds 100 of the intesFne circumference and narrows its lumen, is located 3 cm from one of the incision lines and 3.6 cm from the opposite one. Minimum side margin is 1.3 cm.Macroscopic descripKon : A 12 cm length of the large intesFne with periintesFnal fat Fssue sized 12.5 x 4.5 x 5 cm. Ulcerous tumour sized 6.0 x 4 x 1.6 found in the mucosa. The lesion surrounds 100 of the intesFne circumference and narrows its lumen, is located 3 cm from one of the incision lines and 3.6 cm from the opposite one. Minimum side margin is 1.3 cm.Macroscopic descripKon : A 12 cm length of the large intesFne with periintesFnal fat Fssue sized 12.5 x 4.5 x 5 cm. Ulcerous tumour sized 6.0 x 4 x 1.6 found in the mucosa. The lesion surrounds 100 of the intesFne circumference and narrows its lumen, is located 3 cm from one of the incision lines and 3.6 cm from the opposite one. Minimum side margin is 1.3 cm.Macroscopic descripKon : A 12 cm length of the large intesFne with periintesFnal fat Fssue sized 12.5 x 4.5 x 5 cm. Ulcerous tumour sized 6.0 x 4 x 1.6 found in the mucosa. The lesion surrounds 100 of the intesFne circumference and narrows its lumen, is located 3 cm from one of the incision lines and 3.6 cm from the opposite one. Minimum side margin is 1.3 cm.Macroscopic descripKon : A 12 cm length of the large intesFne with periintesFnal fat Fssue sized 12.5 x 4.5 x 5 cm. Ulcerous tumour sized 6.0 x 4 x 1.6 found in the mucosa. The lesion surrounds 100 of the intesFne circumference and narrows its lumen, is located 3 cm from one of the incision lines and 3.6 cm from the opposite one. Minimum side margin is 1.3 cm.Macroscopic descripKon : A 12 cm length of the large intesFne with periintesFnal fat Fssue sized 12.5 x 4.5 x 5 cm. Ulcerous tumour sized 6.0 x 4 x 1.6 found in the mucosa. The lesion surrounds 100 of the intesFne circumference and narrows its lumen, is located 3 cm from one of the incision lines and 3.6 cm from the opposite one. Minimum side margin is 1.3 cm.Macroscopic descripKon : A 12 cm length of the large intesFne with periintesFnal fat Fssue sized 12.5 x 4.5 x 5 cm. Ulcerous tumour sized 6.0 x 4 x 1.6 found in the mucosa. The lesion surrounds 100 of the intesFne circumference and narrows its lumen, is located 3 cm from one of the incision lines and 3.6 cm from the opposite one. Minimum side margin is 1.3 cm.Macroscopic descripKon : A 12 cm length of the large intesFne with periintesFnal fat Fssue sized 12.5 x 4.5 x 5 cm. Ulcerous tumour sized 6.0 x 4 x 1.6 found in the mucosa. The lesion surrounds 100 of the intesFne circumference and narrows its lumen, is located 3 cm from one of the incision lines and 3.6 cm from the opposite one. Minimum side margin is 1.3 cm.Macroscopic descripKon : A 12 cm length of the large intesFne with periintesFnal fat Fssue sized 12.5 x 4.5 x 5 cm. Ulcerous tumour sized 6.0 x 4 x 1.6 found in the mucosa. The lesion surrounds 100 of the intesFne circumference and narrows its lumen, is located 3 cm from one of the incision lines and 3.6 cm from the opposite one. Minimum side margin is 1.3 cm.Macroscopic descripKon : A 12 cm length of the large intesFne with periintesFnal fat Fssue sized 12.5 x 4.5 x 5 cm. Ulcerous tumour sized 6.0 x 4 x 1.6 found in the mucosa. The lesion surrounds 100 of the intesFne circumference and narrows its lumen, is located 3 cm from one of the incision lines and 3.6 cm from the opposite one. Minimum side margin is 1.3 cm.Macroscopic descripKon : A 12 cm length of the large intesFne with periintesFnal fat Fssue sized 12.5 x 4.5 x 5 cm. Ulcerous tumour sized 6.0 x 4 x 1.6 found in the mucosa. The lesion surrounds 100 of the intesFne circumference and narrows its lumen, is located 3 cm from one of the incision lines and 3.6 cm from the opposite one. Minimum side margin is 1.3 cm. Microscopic descripKon : Adenocarcinoma tubulare G2. InltraFo carcinomatosa tunicae muscularis propriae et telae adiposae pericolicae.Incision lines clear of neoplasFc lesions. LymphonoduliFs reacFva No XVI.Microscopic descripKon : Adenocarcinoma tubulare G2. InltraFo carcinomatosa tunicae muscularis propriae et telae adiposae pericolicae.Incision lines clear of neoplasFc lesions. LymphonoduliFs reacFva No XVI.Microscopic descripKon : Adenocarcinoma tubulare G2. InltraFo carcinomatosa tunicae muscularis propriae et telae adiposae pericolicae.Incision lines clear of neoplasFc lesions. LymphonoduliFs reacFva No XVI.Microscopic descripKon : Adenocarcinoma tubulare G2. InltraFo carcinomatosa tunicae muscularis propriae et telae adiposae pericolicae.Incision lines clear of neoplasFc lesions. LymphonoduliFs reacFva No XVI.Microscopic descripKon : Adenocarcinoma tubulare G2. InltraFo carcinomatosa tunicae muscularis propriae et telae adiposae pericolicae.Incision lines clear of neoplasFc lesions. LymphonoduliFs reacFva No XVI.Microscopic descripKon : Adenocarcinoma tubulare G2. InltraFo carcinomatosa tunicae muscularis propriae et telae adiposae pericolicae.Incision lines clear of neoplasFc lesions. LymphonoduliFs reacFva No XVI.Microscopic descripKon : Adenocarcinoma tubulare G2. InltraFo carcinomatosa tunicae muscularis propriae et telae adiposae pericolicae.Incision lines clear of neoplasFc lesions. LymphonoduliFs reacFva No XVI.Microscopic descripKon : Adenocarcinoma tubulare G2. InltraFo carcinomatosa tunicae muscularis propriae et telae adiposae pericolicae.Incision lines clear of neoplasFc lesions. LymphonoduliFs reacFva No XVI.Microscopic descripKon : Adenocarcinoma tubulare G2. InltraFo carcinomatosa tunicae muscularis propriae et telae adiposae pericolicae.Incision lines clear of neoplasFc lesions. LymphonoduliFs reacFva No XVI.Microscopic descripKon : Adenocarcinoma tubulare G2. InltraFo carcinomatosa tunicae muscularis propriae et telae adiposae pericolicae.Incision lines clear of neoplasFc lesions. LymphonoduliFs reacFva No XVI.Microscopic descripKon : Adenocarcinoma tubulare G2. InltraFo carcinomatosa tunicae muscularis propriae et telae adiposae pericolicae.Incision lines clear of neoplasFc lesions. LymphonoduliFs reacFva No XVI.Microscopic descripKon : Adenocarcinoma tubulare G2. InltraFo carcinomatosa tunicae muscularis propriae et telae adiposae pericolicae.Incision lines clear of neoplasFc lesions. LymphonoduliFs reacFva No XVI.Microscopic descripKon : Adenocarcinoma tubulare G2. InltraFo carcinomatosa tunicae muscularis propriae et telae adiposae pericolicae.Incision lines clear of neoplasFc lesions. LymphonoduliFs reacFva No XVI. Compliance validated by: Compliance validated by: Compliance validated by: Compliance validated by: Compliance validated by: Compliance validated by: Compliance validated by: Compliance validated by: Histopathological diagnosis: Adenocarcinoma tubulare coli. Tubular adenocarcinoma of the colon. G2, Dukes B, Astler-Coller B2, pT3, pNO. CONTACT YOUR DOCTOR WITH THIS REPORT! 
0FGA  : Sample ID : Diagnosis: 1. Chronically fibrosing cholecystitis ,with reactive hyperplasia of a local lymph node. 2. Tumor-free fatty tissue. 3. Resected colon with a centrally ulcerated ,moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma of the colorectal type, located 1 .5 cm from the aboral resection margin ,and with wide infiltration of the pericolic fatty tissue as well as with four local lymph node metastases .Tumor-free colon resection margins. Tumor-free mesocolic resection margin . Also diverticulosis coli. Stage of tumor : pT3 pN2 435 pMX; G2, L1, V0, local R0.1 b V-3 CA4X,-- , PieS8 YO3 S:.o-t 9,-eL C,ON p CQC- C dr 7  UUID:0D66971E -D224-4536-A3BE-813886108E7DTCGA-AA-A01K-01A-PR Redacted III IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 11111 I I II IIIII I I II 11111111111 I I I JJ 11111111 IIiJ 1111111111III 11111111111111111111111111111111111111I1111II11111II IIIIII Crl.cr:a Ui..;nnsis Disc panty Pero, ryTun. or Site Disrrepinny HIFAA Discrepancy PPo Wali nanq History DulSynchroncu Cne is iscircle: 
 SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT .... Clinical Diagnosis  History: Colon carcinoma. Specimens Submitted: 1: Terminal ileum, appendix, and ascending colon; Resection DIAGNOSIS: 1. Terminal ileum, appendix, and ascending colon; Resection: Tumor Type: Adenocarcinoma Histologic Grade: Moderately differentiated Tumor Location: Hepatic flexure Tumor Size: Length is 3.5 cm Width is 8 cm Maximal thickness is 0.6 cm Tumor Budding: Absent Increased Tumor Infiltrating Lymphocytes: Absent Precursor Lesions: Not identified Deepest Tumor Invasion: Subserosal adipose tissue andor mesenteric fat Gross Tumor Perforation: Not identified Lymphovascular Invasion: Not identified Large Venous Invasion: Not Identified Perineural Invasion: Not identified Surgical Margins: Free of tumor PolypsMucosa Dysplasia away from the carcinoma: Tubular adenoma; number: 2 Non-Neoplastic Bowel: Unremarkable  Continued on next page  ------------------------------------------------------------ Page 2 of 3 Appendix: Unremarkable Lymph Nodes: Number with metastasis: 0 Total number examined: 20 Tumor deposits in pericolorectal soft tissue: Not Identified Tumor Staging AJCC 7th Edition: pT3 Tumor invades through the muscularis propria into pericolorectal tissues Lymph Node Stage AJCC 7th Edition: N0 No regional lymph node metastasis -------------------------------------------------------- I ATTEST THAT THE ABOVE DIAGNOSIS IS BASED UPON MY PERSONAL EXAMINATION OF THE SLIDES ANDOR OTHER MATERIAL, AND THAT I HAVE REVIEWED AND APPROVED THIS REPORT. Gross Description: 1. The specimen is received fresh, labeled Right colon and consists of a segment of terminal ileum, cecum with attached appendix and ascending colon. The terminal ileum measures 15.2 cm in length and 4.1 cm in circumference at the proximal resected margin. The remaining colon measures 41.6 in length with a circumference of 8.2 cm at the distal resected margin. The attached appendix measures 9 cm in length and averages 0.8 cm in diameter. The appendiceal and intestinal serosa are pink tan and smooth. The colonic serosa has a focus of retraction and is inked black. Focally hemorrhagic lobulated yellow tan adipose tissue spans the length of the specimen measuring up to 6 cm in thickness. There is also omentum 17.2 to 15 x 1 cm which is serially sectioned revealing unremarkable adipose tissue. The specimen is opened to reveal a circumferential tan-pink mass measuring 3.5 cm in length and 8 cm in width. The mass is located in the transverse colon, immediately adjacent to a tattoo site, 32.2 cm from the proximal margin, 10.3 cm from the distal margin, and 16.5 cm from the ileocecal valve. Sectioning shows that the tumor invades the muscularis. The depth of invasion is 0.3 cm grossly; the tumor has a thickness of 0.6 centimeters. There are two tan-pink polypoidal masses 1.1 cm and 0.4 cm in greatest dimension located 3.0 cm and 4.5 cm from ileocecal valve, respectively. The remaining mucosa is unremarkable. The attached adipose tissue is thoroughly examined and all identified lymph nodes are submitted. Representative sections of the specimen are submitted for permanent sections and for Summary of sections: P - proximal margin shave D - distal margin shave T tumor  Continued on next page  ------------------------------------------------------------ Page 3 of 3 P-polypoid masses RS -representative sections A appendix, representative sections LN - lymph nodes BLN - bisected lymph nodes Summary of Sections: Part 1: Terminal ileum, appendix, and ascending colon; Resection Block Sect. Site PCs 1 A 1 5 BLN 10 1 DM 1 8 LN 24 1 P 1 1 PM 1 1 RS 1 5 T 5  End of Report  
PATIENT HISTORY; Colon cancer, COPO, thoraco Of abdominal aneurysm, PRE OP DIAGNOSIS: Cecal mass. POST OP DIAGNOSIS: Game PROCEDURE- Right hemicolectomy. ADDENDA; Addendum f . h I h ratio I it h bridization studies performed on the moderately differentliilted adenocarcinoma 0 t n co on s ow a  e2rrJEtU gene to the centromere of chromOsom 17 of 1.66. This indicates low level amplification of the Her-2neu oncogone in the targeted rgton FINAL DIAGNOSIS: PART 1: COLON, RIGHT, HEMICOLECTOMY A. MODERATELY DIFFERENTIATED ADENOCARCINOMA. B TUMOR SIZE 6.0 X 6.0 X 5.0 CM. C. TUMOR INVADING THROUGH THE MUSCULARIS PROPRIA TO THE SUBSE D. SURGICAL MARGINS FREE OF TUMOR. E. NO EVIDENCE OF ANGIOLYMPHATIC OR PERINEURAL INVASION. F, TWerHYMFOUR 24 LYMPH NODES FREE OF TUMOR, G. TUMOR STAGE: pT3NOMX PART 2: GALLBLADDER, CHOLECYSTECTOMY A. CHOLELITHIASIS WITH CHRONIC CHOLECYSTITIS. 6. NO EVIDENCE OF MALIGNANCY. COMMENT;    t   E, Pa111: Multiple sections of the right colon tumor mass show a moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma consisting of well-fermedmalignant glands. In some area, the tumor cells contain abundant mucin vacuoles with a signetring appearance. However, individual infiltrating signetring calls are not seen. In other areas, the tumor cells form nests or trabeculae with irregular to angular nuclei and visible nucleolI. Although the lat1ar component taises the possibility of neuroendocrine difforentiation, immunostain for the neuroendocrine markers synaptophysin and ciiiiiiromo ranin are both negative. Therefore, this tumor j:;; best characterized as moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma, las reviowod this, easo ? agreed with the diagnosis. SYNOPTIC PRIMAR.Y COLON AND RECTAL TUMORS A B Lucatlon. 2 1 Ileocecal Region 2. Ascending Colon 3, Transverse Colon Procedure 1 1 . Segmental COlectomy 2 Totul Colectomy 4. Olscending Colon 5, Sigmoid Colon 6. Rectum 3. Other C Size of Tumor mJXlmum dimension 6.0 x 6 0 x 5 0 em D, Type-l E 1 AcenocorclOoma, NOS :2 Adul1ocarClnoma ariSing in a background of an adenOma. 3 Adenocarcinoma arising in a background of Inflammatory bowel disease 4 Aden6squamous carcinoma 5 Cfcinoid Tumor Neuroendocnne Tumor 6. Mucinous Adenocarcinoma 7. Signet ring cell type Adenocarcinoma 8, Neuroendocrine Garclnoma Grade: 2 9, Squamous: Cell Carcinoma 10, Undifferenttated Carcinoma 11. Sarcoma 12. Smooth Muscle Tumor 13, Gastrointestinal stromal tumor 14. Lymphoma 15. Other 1 Well dlffenimtlated 2. Modet8tely differentiated 3, Poorly differentiated F ExtElnl of Infiltration.  1 Limited to the mucosa 2. Into submucosa 3. Involving mUSCularis propria G. Anglolympllalic Invasiow  1. Yes 2. No H, Surgn:;al Margins Involved. 6. 1 Yes 2. No Rogional Lymph Node Involvement: 2 1 Yes 2. No J. If regional lymph nodes involved, Number pOSitivenumber examined: t1  Ii. K Extracapular spread. 2- Yes 2. No L AfifiOclated conditions. t:! I  1 Ulcerative colitis. 2 Crohns Diseafle 3 History pfsence of adenomatous pOlyps 4, Multiple polypOSiS syndromes. 5 Diverticulosis, M. TNM Stage. T;l N Q M ;i N. Dukes Stage 2. 1 A limited to mucosa and muscularis 2 B.lhrough muscularis into subserosa 4. Infiltrating through muscularis propna Into serosill adipose lissue 5. Involving adjacent organs pelvic wall 3 C through subserosn and involving adjacent organpelvic wallregional or distant lymph nOdes o Asller. Coller Stage . .:2 1, A mucosa but not into musculans propria ,2, 1:l1 muscularis propria but not through, LN negative 3, 82 througn musculans propria into sub:;eroSol flbroadipos8 tissue, LN negative 4. C1 limited to m1Jculans propria but lot throUgh serosa, LN positivt: 5 C2 !r1vades serosal adipose tissue. LN positive 
This is an invasive, moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma of the colon G2 with infiltration of the muscularis pT2 without vascular infiltration L0, V0. Tumor classification: ICDO -DA-M 81403 G2 pT2, L0, V0 pN0 0 of 14 locally R0 M classif ication in the context of an oncology conference
Diagnosis  Diagnoses:  Resectate of the colon under inclusion of a moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma of the colorectal type, of maximum 2.5 cm in size, with infiltration of the pericolic fatty tissue. Tumor -free regional lymph nodes. Tumor -free mesenteric resection margin. Tumor -free large intestinal resection margins. Tumor stage: pT3 pN0 035 pMX; G2, L0, V0, locally R0
Diagnosis: Partial sigmoid colon resection material with an ulcerated carcinoma of the colon characterized histologically as a moderately differentiated colorectal adenocarcinoma, showing circular growth in the intestinal wall over a length of 3.5 cm and extending to within 6 cm of a resection margin. Invasive tumor spread within all parietal layers as far as the adjoining mesocolic fatty tissue. Colon otherwise shows several pseudodiverticula and slight chronically scarring peridiverticulitis Oral and aboral resection margins tumor -free. One of 26 lymph nodes with a metastasis of the colon carcinoma not extending over the capsule. Other lymph nodes with uncharacteristic reactive lesions. Tumor stage thus pT3 pN1 126 L0 V0; G2 R0 
Examination: Histopathological examination Cost of diagnostic procedure Material: 1. Multiple organ resection -sigmoid colon Physician in charge: Material collected on: Material received on: Expected time of examination: Clinical diagnosis: Cancer of the sigmoid colon. Hi st. Pat adenocarcinoma invasivum . Examination performed on: Macroscopic description: page 1 I 1 TCGA-05-6532 21 em length of the large Intestine with fat tissue of 22 x 10 x 5 em. Ulcerous tumour sized 8 x 5 x 1.5 em in the mucosa. The lesion surrounds 55 of the intestine circumference1 narrowing its lumen; is located 11 em from one of the cut ends and 2 em from the opposite one. The lesion macroscopically invades through the periintestinal tissue. Minimum side margin is 0.1 em. Microscopic description: Adenocarcinoma tubulare G2. lnfiltratio carcinomatosa tunicae muscularis priopriae et telae adiposae pericollcae. Incision lines free of neoplastic lesions. Lymphonodulltis reactiva No X. Final diagnosis after immunohistochemical tests No. are performed. Compliance validated by: Examination performed on: Histopathological diagnosis: Adenocarcinoma tubulare coli. Tubular adenocarcinoma of the colon. G2, Dukes B, Astler-Coller 82, pT3, pNO. Compliance validated by: 
Diagnosis: This is an invasive, poorly differentiated colon carcinoma sigmoid colon carcinoma G3 with penetration of all parietal layers pT3 and vascular infiltration L1, V1, - with regard to the resection margins in the mucosa region and in the deep circumferential resection margin, these are free resection margins , Tumor classification: ICDO -DA M81403, G3 pT3 L1, V1, pN 1 2 of 1 3  1 , locally R0
 Diagnosis  Diagnoses:  Resectate of portion of colon sigmoid colon with an ulcerated colon carcinoma conforming to the histological type of a moderately differentiated colorectal adenocarcinoma, extending no closer than 6 cm to the resection marg in and with a greatest diameter of 3 cm. Invasive spread of tumor within all layers of the intestinal wall and as far as the neighboring mesocolic fatty tissue. Remainder of the intestinal mucosal membrane with a small, tubular adenoma with mild epithelial dysplasia synonym: low -grade intra -epithelial neoplasia. Oral and aboral resection margins tumor -free. Twenty -two mesocolic lymph nodes with uncharacteristic reactive changes and tumor - free. Tumor stage thus pT3 pN0 022 L0 V0; G2. 
Examination: Histopathological examin,,i,n Expected time of examination: up to Clinical diagnosis: Cancer of the large intestine Examination performed Macroscopic description: 19.9 cm length of the large intestine, with peri intestinal tissue sized 25 x 13 x 3cm, 8 em segment of the small intestine, and 7 em appendix. Cauliflower-shaped tumour in the intestinal mucosa, sized 4.7 x 9.3 x 1.2 em. The lesion surrounds 100 of the intestine circumference, 9.2 em from the proximal cut end, 12.2 em from the distal cut end, and 1.2 em from the ileocecal valve. Tumour accompanied by polyps of up to 1.5 cm. Microscopic description: Adenocarcinoma tubuloapapillare part im muclnosum G3. Intiltratio carcinomatosa profunda tunicae muscularis proprlae et telae adiposae pericolicae. Intestine ends free of neoplastic lesions. Off tumour: Adenomata tubulopapillaria cum dysplasia gradus mediocris ad malorem. Lymphonodulitis reactiva No VII. Processus vermicularis sine laesionibus. Histopathological diagnosis: Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare partim mucinosum coli. G3; DukesB; Astier-CollerB2; pT3; pNO. Adenomata rubulopapillaria cum dysplasia grad us mediocr;s ad maiorem high grade: 
UUID:94F7B032-1181-44E0-AB16-4A672A88E086 TCGA-AY-A69D-01A-PR Redacted III IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII SURGICAL PATH OLOGY III IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIICase Number: Diagnosis: A: Colon, transverse, partial colectomy Tumor Histologic Type: invasive adenocarcinoma Histologic Grade: moderately differentiated grade 2 of 4 Tumor Location: transverse colon Depth of Invasion: -Through muscularis propria and into the subserosa and pericolic soft tissue Lymphovascular Invasion: not identified6AAwAJ6 3 X141643Perineural Invasion: not identifiedS db20oji?qMargins: Proximal margin: negative Distal margin: negative Mesenteric margin: negative Distance of carcinoma from closest margin specify: 6.6 cm to the closest distal margin of resection Regional Lymph Nodes: Total number with metastasis: 0 Total number examined: 25 Additional Pathologic Findings: Immunohistochemical stains for MLH-l, MSH-2, PSH-6 and PMS-2 are performed on block A7. The tumor cells demonstrate appropriate positive nuclear expression for all four markers. This is the normal phenotype and does NOT support a diagnosis of microsatellite instabilityhereditary non-polyposis colorectal cancer HNPCC. Separate molecular testing for microsatellite instability markers will be performed and reported separately. Appropriate controls are performed. AJCC Pathologic TNM Stage: pT3 pNO Note: This pathologic stage assessment is based on information available at the time of this report, and is subject to change pending clinical review and additional information.Clinical History: -year-old female with, colon cancer. Gross Description: Received is one appropriately labeled container, additionally labeled transverse colon and omentum. It consists of a 23.5 cm long x 5.2 cm in circumference segment of large bowel with attached omentum 30.4 x 15.6 x 0.8 cm, pericolonic adipose tissue up to 4.3 cm thick and appendix is absent. There is a 5.2 x 2.6 x 0.7 cm protruding into lumen firm, pinktan, centrally ulcerated circumferential mass with raised borders that is 10.7 cm from the proximal margin and 6.6 cm from the distal margin. The distal margin has an attached suture, which is inked blue and the serosa overlying the mass is inked black. The mass on cut section is firm, smooth, graywhite, extends 1.1 cm through the wall and into the mesentery focally retracting the serosa but not extending through it, and 3.5 cm from the mesenteric margin. The uninvolved mucosa is tan with normal folding pattern. The omentum has patchy areas of hemorrhage but nodules are absent. The pericolonic adipose tissue is dissected for lymph node candidates of which 29 are identified ranging from 0.2 cm in greatest dimension up to 0.8 x 0.8 x 0.8 cm in greatest dimension. Block summary: Al - mesenteric margin, en face A2-A3 - proximal mucosal margin, en face A4-A5 - distal mucosal margin, en face A6 - mass retracting the serosa A7-A8 - each contains deepest extension lymph node in A8 A9 - mass with distal A10 - Allof mass with positive mucosa mass with proximal mucosa omentum A12-A14 - each contains six lymph node candidates A15-A16 - each contains four lymph node candidates A17 - two lymph node candidates, each bisected, one is inked black A18-A19 - one lymph node candidate, serially sectioned Tumor and normal are given to 6ISQUAL!fI11D
PATIENT 1-I1:::TtI The patient is liver, Bilateral PRE OP DIAGNOSIS: Colon cancer. POST OP DIAGNOSIS: Same. ree or more mets involving ..-reVIOLIS cerebral vascular accident with history of hypertension PROCEDURE: Liver biopsy, right hemicolectomy, open cholecystectomy intraoperative ADDENDA:  Addendum Fluorescent in situ hybridization studies have been performed on the poorly differentiated colonic adenocarcinoma. The ratio of HER21neu to the centromere of chromosome 17 is 1.70, indicating low level HER21neu amplification in the targeted region. Her2neu amplification may help in identifying those patients likely to experience shorter survival when considered tdgether with other major risk factors. FINAL DIAGNOSIS: PART 1: LIVER, BIOPSY METASTATIC MUCINOUS ADENOCARCINOMA, CONSISTENT WITH PATIENTS COLON PRIMARY see comment. PART 2: GALLBLADDER, CHOLECYSTECTOMY GALLBLADDER WITH CHRONIC CHOLECYSTITIS, PART 3: KIDNEY, RIGHT, EXCISION OF MASS A. MULTIPLE RENAL CORTICAL CYSTS WITH ASSOCIATED HEMORRHAGE AND ORGANIZING HEMATOMA. B. NO EVIDENCE OF MALIGNANCY. PART 4: COLON, RIGHT HEMICOLECTOMY A. INVASIVE POORLY DIFFERENTIATED ADENOCARCINOMA WITH AREAS OF MUCINOUS DIFFERENTIATION see comment. B. THE CARCINOMA SHOWS INVASION THROUGH MUSCULARIS PROPRIA AND INTO SEROSAL ADIPOSE TISSUE. C. METASTATIC ADENOCARCINOMA IS PRESENT WITHIN ONE OF TEN LYMPH NODES, 4.0 CM, WITH FOCAL EXTRACAPSULAR EXTENSION. D. ALL EXAMINED RESECTION MARGINS ARE FREE OF TUMOR. E. STAGE: T4 N1 M1, DUKE C, ASTLER COLLIER C2. F. APPENDIX WITH NO SIGNIFICANT PATHOLOGIC CHANGE, COMMEN : Much of this tumor is a well differentiated adenocarcinoma, and the perieolonie lymph node metastasis from part 4 is of this pattern. However, some of the deeply invasive tumor is mucinous, and this pattern is present in the liver biopsy. Trichrome and PAS stains were performed on the liver biopsy  part 1. The trichrome stain highlights desmoplastic fibrosis within the metastatic carcinoma. The PAS stain highlights Intracellular and extracellular mucin within the metastatic carcinoma. ,  SYNQPTIC. PRIMARY COLON AND RECTAL TUMORS A. B. C. D location: 2 1. Ileocecal Region 2. Ascending Colon 3. Transverse Colon Procedure: 1 1 Segmental Colectomy 2. Total Colectomy Size of Tumor maximum dimension: 6.5 cm Type: 1 1. Adenocarcinoma, NOS 2. Adenocarcinoma arising in a background of an adenoma. 3. Adenocarcinoma arising in a background of inflammatory bowel disease 4. Adenosquamous carcinoma 5. Carcinoid Tumor Neuroendocrine Tumor 6. Mucinous Adenocarcinoma 7. Signet ring cell type Adenocarcinoma 8. Neuroendocrine CarCinoma E. Grade: 3 4. Descending Colon 5. Sigmoid Colon 6. Rectum 3. Other 9. Squamous Cell Carcinoma 10. Undifferentiated Carcinoma 11 Sarcoma 12. Smooth Muscle Tumor 13. Gastrointestinal stromal tumor 14. lymphoma 15, Other 1. Well differentiated Exlent of Infiltration: 4 2. Moderately differentiated 3, Poorly differentiated F 1 Limited to the mucosa 2, Into submucosa 3. Involving muscularis propria G. Angiolymphatic Invasion: 1 1, Yes 2, No H. Surgical Margins Involved: 2 1. Yes 2. No I. Regional Lymph Node Involvement: 1. Yes 2. No 1. If regional lymph nodes Involved, Number positlve!number examined: 110. K Extracapsular spread: 1 1. Yes 2, No. L. Associated conditions: !!: !!: !!: .!!: 1. Ulcerative colitis. 2, Crohns Disease. 3 History! presence of adenomatous polyps. 4 Multiple polyposis syndromes. 5. Diverticulosis. M TNM Stage: T4 N 1 M 1 N. Dukes Stage: 3 1, A limited to mucosa and muscularis 2. 8 through musculariS into subserosa 4. Infiltrating through muscularis propria mto serosal adipose tissue 5. Involving adjacent organs! pelvic wall 3. C through subserosa and involving adjacent organ!pelvic wallregional or distant lymph nodes 0, Astler -Coller Siage: C2 1 A mucosa but not Into muscularis propria 2, B1 muscularis propria but not through, LN negative 3 82 through muscularis propria into subserosal fibroadipose tissue, LN negative 4. C1 limited to muscularis propria but not through serosa, LN positive 5. C2 invades serosal adipose tissue, LN positive 
 SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT  Addendum  .... Clinical Diagnosis  History: with transverse colon moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma. Specimens Submitted: 1: SP: Right colon, hemicolectomy DIAGNOSIS: 1. LARGE BOWEL; RIGHT HEMICOLECTOMY: - TUMOR TYPE: ADENOCARCINOMA. - HISTOLOGIC GRADE: MODERATELY DIFFERENTIATED. - TUMOR LOCATION: ASCENDING COLON. - TUMOR SIZE: LENGTH IS 5.2 CM, WIDTH IS 4.1 CM, AND DEPTH IS 0.3 CM. - TUMOR INVASION: INVASION INTO MUSCULARIS PROPRIA. - GROSS TUMOR PERFORATION: NOT IDENTIFIED. - SEROSAL INVOLVEMENT: NOT IDENTIFIED. - VASCULAR INVASION: NOT IDENTIFIED. - PERINEURAL INVASION: NOT IDENTIFIED. - SURGICAL MARGINS FOR COLONIC TUMORS: FREE OF TUMOR. - POLYPS AWAY FROM THE CARCINOMA: NOT IDENTIFIED. - OTHER FINDINGS: THE APPENDIX CONTAINS A SMALL INCIDENTAL SCHWANNOMA 0.5 CM. - NON-NEOPLASTIC BOWEL: UNREMARKABLE. - THE PATHOLOGIC STAGE IS AJCC 2002: pT2. - LYMPH NODES: NUMBER WITH METASTASES: 0, NUMBER EXAMINED: 33. - THE PATHOLOGIC STAGE IS AJCC 2002: pN0. I ATTEST THAT THE ABOVE DIAGNOSIS IS BASED UPON MY PERSONAL EXAMINATION OF THE SLIDES ANDOR OTHER MATERIAL, AND THAT I HAVE REVIEWED AND APPROVED THIS REPORT.  Continued on next page  ------------------------------------------------------------ Page 2 of 3 1. The specimen is received fresh, labeled Right colon and consists of a segment of terminal ileum, cecum with attached appendix and ascending colon. The terminal ileum measures 6 cm in length and 3.5 cm in circumference at the proximal resected margin. The remaining colon measures 33 cm in length with a circumference of 7 cm at the distal resected margin. The attached appendix measures 7 cm in length and averages 0.4 cm in diameter. The appendiceal and intestinal serosa is pink tan and smooth. Focally hemorrhagic lobulated yellow tan adipose tissue spans the length of the specimen measuring up to 3 cm in thickness. Attached unremarkable omental fat measures 18 x 6 x 1.3 cm. The specimen is opened to reveal a mass lesion measuring 5.2 cm in length and 4.1 cm in width. Sectioning show that the tumor invades into the muscularis. The depth of invasion is 0.3 cm grossly. The remaining mucosa is grossly unremarkable. Multiple lymph nodes are identified in the attached adipose tissue and are submitted. Representative sections of the specimen are submitted for permanent sections and for TPS. Summary of sections: P-- proximal margin shave D -- distal margin shave T-- mass A -- appendix representative sections RS--representative sections O- omental fat LN-- lymph nodes, 17-19 closest to tumor ADD additional sections from tumor area the tumor is entirely submitted now Summary of Sections: Part 1: SP: Right colon, hemicolectomy Block Sect. Site PCs 2 A 2 3 add 3 2 DM 2 8 LN 8 2 O 2 1 PM 1 2 RS 2 4 T 4  Continued on next page  ------------------------------------------------------------ Page 3 of 3 Addendum Diagnosis 1 SITE: LARGE BOWEL, RIGHT COLON - IMMUNOHISTOCHEMICAL STAINING FOR DNA MISMATCH REPAIR PROTEINS HAS BEEN PERFORMED. THE RESULTS ARE AS FOLLOWS: MLH1: STAINING PRESENT IN TUMOR MSH2: STAINING PRESENT IN TUMOR MSH6: STAINING PRESENT IN TUMOR PMS2: STAINING PRESENT IN TUMOR CONCLUSION: IMMUNOHISTOCHEMICAL STAINING FOR THE TESTED DNA MISMATCH REPAIR PROTEINS IS RETAINED IN THE TUMOR. Some of the immunohistochemistry and ISH tests were developed and their performance characteristics were determined by the department of pathology. They have not been cleared or approved by the US food and drug administration. The FDA has determined that such clearance or approval is not necessary. These tests are used for clinical purposes. They should not be regarded as investigational or for research. This laboratory is certified under the clinical laboratory improvement amendments of  as qualified to perform high complexity clinical laboratory testing.  End of Report  
4 EI L-Sample ID 9. Diagnosis: Resected colon with an extensive, ulcerated, moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma of the colorectal type with infiltration of the pericolic fatty tissue, and measuring a max of 3.5 cm. Tumor-free local lymph nodes. Tumor-free colon resection margins. Tumor-free mesocolic amputation margin. Tumor classification : pT3 pNO 018, pMX; G2, L1, V0, R0. CL- o- 3 cSfw te a- C4 aN1 SOS 9 0 3  c Qr C-il 7 1 3, ori UUID:6DFB118D-8692 -4957-8563- 83A91080038F TCGA-AA-A017-01A-PR Redacted III IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII111lUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIII111IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII11i I IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIII
Cam , N os 8 i03 S,A  SToi d Cf ,.- C g, 7 c Sample ID : Diagnosis: Resectate of the colon ,or sigmoid colon ,with tumor -free oral and aboral resection margins and under inclusion of an ulcerated ,moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma with infiltration of the perimuscular fatty tissue and without regional lymph node metastases G2, pT3 L I VO RO pNO 037. The unusual appearance of the pericolic lymph nodes based on microscopic examination leads to the question of whether there are clinical indications for a lymphatic leukemia.,If CLL has not been diagnosed, then we request to be informed accordingly so that the tissue can potentially be sent on for consultation purposes and further investigation at the Lymph Node Registry in  Prior Dual Gse. Re wtpUUID: CDC060C5 -954A -44FC -946E -66AB98D78Re d acted TCGA-AA-AOGZ -01A-PR IMP IIIIIIIIIII13111IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII1111 iiiiunnirniiui crIteri. Di nosis Direnq Primary Tumr teDi-IPancy MIPMMIPM Discr C 0
Diagnosis: Resected section of colon sigma with a colon carcinoma characterized histologically as a moderately differentiated colorectal adenocarcinoma, extending up to 5 cm to one resection margin and measuring 4.5 cm in diameter at the widest point. In vasive spread of the tumor within all intestinal wall layers up to the bordering mesocolic fatty tissue and the level of the subserosa. In addition, the colon wall has a few pseudodiverticula and slightly scarring peridiverticulitis. The stage of the tumor is therefore: pT3 pN0 022 L0 V0; G2 R0. 
 TCGA-A6-4107 SPECIMEN Right colon CLINICAL NOTES PRE-OP DIAGNOSIS: Right colon cancer. GROSS DESCRIPTION Received fresh labeled right colonu is a previously unopened 17 em. segment of proximal right colon with attached 13.5 em. of distal ileum surfaced by smooth to slightly scabrous tan-pink serosa with a copious amount of attached mesocolon and mesentery. A 4.7 em. unremarkable appendix ranging from 0.5 to 0.8 em. in diameter is present. The proximal and distal margins measure 4.0 and 6.5 em. in circumference respectively. on opening, there is a circumferential, 7.8 x 4.6 em. lobulated soft tan-pink lesion 8 em. distal to the ileocecal valve. A portion of tumor and a portion of normal are submitted for tissue procurement as requested. On sectioning, the tumor has a maximal thickness of 1.4 em. and appears to grossly extend through the muscularis focally. The tumor is greater than 3 ern. from the inked free serosal surface. and and the The ileal mucosa is finely nodular tan-pink with irregular folds the lall averages 0. 5 em. in thickness. The uninvolved colonic mucosa is unremarkable glistening tan-pink with irregular folds the wall averages 0.5 em. in thickness as well. Multiple soft to slightly rubbery tan pink-red tissues in keeping with lymph nodes measuring up to 1.4 em. in greatest dimension are recovered from attached mesocolon and mesentery. submitted in 17 blocks as labeled. Representative sections are RS-17 BLOCK SUMMARY: 1 -Proximal and distal margins; 2-5 -central tumor; 6 -closest inked radial serosal surface subjacent to tumor; 7 -ICV; 8 -random ileum and colon; 9 -appendix; 10-12 -eight whole lymph nodes per cassette; 13, 14 -six whole lymph nodes per cassette; 15, 16 -one trisected lymph node per cassette; 17 -one GROSS DESCRIPTION bisected lymph node. MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION A summary of the microscopic findings for this right colon resection is in the template below. Histologic type: Invasive adenocarcinoma. Histologic grade: Moderately differentiated. Primary tumor pT : Tumor invades through the muscularis propria into the superficial pericolonic fat pT3 . Proximal margin: Negative for tumor. Distal margin: Negative for tumor. Circumferential radial margin: Negative for tumor. Distance of tumor from closest margin: 19 em from distal margin Vascular invasion: Not identified. Regional lymph nodes pN : Metastatic adenocarcinoma is identified in 228 lymph nodes pNlb . Non-lymph node pericolonic tumor: Not identified. Distant metastasis pM : Can not evaluate pMx. Other findings: The appendix demonstrates endometriosis. COMMENT: MSI testing was requested by the surgeon. Block 2 has been sent to for MSI testing and that report will be sent to 5 DIAGNOSIS A. Colon, right, ileocolectomy: DIAGNOSIS Invasive moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma, invasive through muscularis propria into fat pT3. 2of 28 lymph nodes positive for metastatic adenocarcinoma pNlb . Resection margins are negative for carcinoma. Appendix with endometriosis. ---End Of Report --- 
 DiagnosisDiagnoses:  Ileocolonic resection specimen including an extended, extensively ulcerated moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma of the colorectal type localized in the ascending colon with extensive infiltration of the pericolic fatty tis sue and two regional lymph node metastases. Tumor -free large and small bowel resection margins. Tumor -free mesenteric resection margin. Tumor -free appendix. Tumor free omental fat tissue. Small tubular adenoma of the colonic mucosa with slight dysplasia synonym: low -grade intra- epithelial neoplasia additionally. Tumor stage: pT3 pN1 228 pMX; G2, L0, V0 R0. 
 page 1  1 page 1  1 page 1  1 page 1  1 page 1  1 Department of Cancer Pathology cito Department of Cancer Pathology cito Department of Cancer Pathology cito Department of Cancer Pathology cito Department of Cancer Pathology cito Department of Cancer Pathology cito Department of Cancer Pathology cito Department of Cancer Pathology cito Department of Cancer Pathology cito Department of Cancer Pathology cito Department of Cancer Pathology cito copy No. 2 Date: Date: Date: Date: ExaminaHon: Histopathological examinaHon ExaminaHon: Histopathological examinaHon ExaminaHon: Histopathological examinaHon ExaminaHon: Histopathological examinaHon ExaminaHon: Histopathological examinaHon ExaminaHon: Histopathological examinaHon ExaminaHon: Histopathological examinaHon ExaminaHon: Histopathological examinaHon ExaminaHon: Histopathological examinaHon ExaminaHon: Histopathological examinaHon ExaminaHon: Histopathological examinaHon ExaminaHon: Histopathological examinaHon Internal invoice No.Internal invoice No.Internal invoice No.Internal invoice No. Cost of diagnosOc procedureCost of diagnosOc procedureCost of diagnosOc procedureCost of diagnosOc procedureCost of diagnosOc procedureCost of diagnosOc procedure ExaminaHon No.: ExaminaHon No.: PaOent: XXX PaOent: XXX PESEL: XXX PESEL: XXX PESEL: XXX PESEL: XXX Age: Gender: Gender: Gender: Gender: Gender: Material: MulHple organ resecHon  segment of the large intesHneMaterial: MulHple organ resecHon  segment of the large intesHneMaterial: MulHple organ resecHon  segment of the large intesHneMaterial: MulHple organ resecHon  segment of the large intesHneMaterial: MulHple organ resecHon  segment of the large intesHneMaterial: MulHple organ resecHon  segment of the large intesHneMaterial: MulHple organ resecHon  segment of the large intesHneMaterial: MulHple organ resecHon  segment of the large intesHneMaterial: MulHple organ resecHon  segment of the large intesHneMaterial: MulHple organ resecHon  segment of the large intesHneMaterial: MulHple organ resecHon  segment of the large intesHneMaterial: MulHple organ resecHon  segment of the large intesHne Unit in chargeUnit in chargeUnit in chargeUnit in chargeUnit in chargeUnit in chargeUnit in chargeUnit in chargeUnit in chargeUnit in chargeUnit in chargeUnit in charge Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Material collected on: Material collected on: Material collected on: Material received on: Material received on: Material received on: Material received on: Material received on: Expected Ome of examinaOon: Expected Ome of examinaOon: Expected Ome of examinaOon: Expected Ome of examinaOon: Expected Ome of examinaOon: Expected Ome of examinaOon: Expected Ome of examinaOon: Expected Ome of examinaOon: Expected Ome of examinaOon: Expected Ome of examinaOon: Expected Ome of examinaOon: Expected Ome of examinaOon: Clinical diagnosis: Cancer of the sigmoid colonClinical diagnosis: Cancer of the sigmoid colonClinical diagnosis: Cancer of the sigmoid colonClinical diagnosis: Cancer of the sigmoid colonClinical diagnosis: Cancer of the sigmoid colonClinical diagnosis: Cancer of the sigmoid colonClinical diagnosis: Cancer of the sigmoid colonClinical diagnosis: Cancer of the sigmoid colonClinical diagnosis: Cancer of the sigmoid colonClinical diagnosis: Cancer of the sigmoid colonClinical diagnosis: Cancer of the sigmoid colonClinical diagnosis: Cancer of the sigmoid colon ExaminaOon performed on: ExaminaOon performed on: ExaminaOon performed on: ExaminaOon performed on: ExaminaOon performed on: ExaminaOon performed on: ExaminaOon performed on: ExaminaOon performed on: ExaminaOon performed on: Macroscopic descripOon : A 12 cm length of the large intesHne with fat Hssue sized 14 x 6 x 9.5 cm. Tumour sized 4 x 3 x 1.5 cm detected in the mucosa. The lesion surrounding 50 of the intesHne circumference, removed by 5 cm from one of the incision lines, and 5.3 from the opposite one. The lesion inltrates macroscopically the muscular membrane. DiverHculum 1 cm in diameter found outside the tumour.Macroscopic descripOon : A 12 cm length of the large intesHne with fat Hssue sized 14 x 6 x 9.5 cm. Tumour sized 4 x 3 x 1.5 cm detected in the mucosa. The lesion surrounding 50 of the intesHne circumference, removed by 5 cm from one of the incision lines, and 5.3 from the opposite one. The lesion inltrates macroscopically the muscular membrane. DiverHculum 1 cm in diameter found outside the tumour.Macroscopic descripOon : A 12 cm length of the large intesHne with fat Hssue sized 14 x 6 x 9.5 cm. Tumour sized 4 x 3 x 1.5 cm detected in the mucosa. The lesion surrounding 50 of the intesHne circumference, removed by 5 cm from one of the incision lines, and 5.3 from the opposite one. The lesion inltrates macroscopically the muscular membrane. DiverHculum 1 cm in diameter found outside the tumour.Macroscopic descripOon : A 12 cm length of the large intesHne with fat Hssue sized 14 x 6 x 9.5 cm. Tumour sized 4 x 3 x 1.5 cm detected in the mucosa. The lesion surrounding 50 of the intesHne circumference, removed by 5 cm from one of the incision lines, and 5.3 from the opposite one. The lesion inltrates macroscopically the muscular membrane. DiverHculum 1 cm in diameter found outside the tumour.Macroscopic descripOon : A 12 cm length of the large intesHne with fat Hssue sized 14 x 6 x 9.5 cm. Tumour sized 4 x 3 x 1.5 cm detected in the mucosa. The lesion surrounding 50 of the intesHne circumference, removed by 5 cm from one of the incision lines, and 5.3 from the opposite one. The lesion inltrates macroscopically the muscular membrane. DiverHculum 1 cm in diameter found outside the tumour.Macroscopic descripOon : A 12 cm length of the large intesHne with fat Hssue sized 14 x 6 x 9.5 cm. Tumour sized 4 x 3 x 1.5 cm detected in the mucosa. The lesion surrounding 50 of the intesHne circumference, removed by 5 cm from one of the incision lines, and 5.3 from the opposite one. The lesion inltrates macroscopically the muscular membrane. DiverHculum 1 cm in diameter found outside the tumour.Macroscopic descripOon : A 12 cm length of the large intesHne with fat Hssue sized 14 x 6 x 9.5 cm. Tumour sized 4 x 3 x 1.5 cm detected in the mucosa. The lesion surrounding 50 of the intesHne circumference, removed by 5 cm from one of the incision lines, and 5.3 from the opposite one. The lesion inltrates macroscopically the muscular membrane. DiverHculum 1 cm in diameter found outside the tumour.Macroscopic descripOon : A 12 cm length of the large intesHne with fat Hssue sized 14 x 6 x 9.5 cm. Tumour sized 4 x 3 x 1.5 cm detected in the mucosa. The lesion surrounding 50 of the intesHne circumference, removed by 5 cm from one of the incision lines, and 5.3 from the opposite one. The lesion inltrates macroscopically the muscular membrane. DiverHculum 1 cm in diameter found outside the tumour.Macroscopic descripOon : A 12 cm length of the large intesHne with fat Hssue sized 14 x 6 x 9.5 cm. Tumour sized 4 x 3 x 1.5 cm detected in the mucosa. The lesion surrounding 50 of the intesHne circumference, removed by 5 cm from one of the incision lines, and 5.3 from the opposite one. The lesion inltrates macroscopically the muscular membrane. DiverHculum 1 cm in diameter found outside the tumour.Macroscopic descripOon : A 12 cm length of the large intesHne with fat Hssue sized 14 x 6 x 9.5 cm. Tumour sized 4 x 3 x 1.5 cm detected in the mucosa. The lesion surrounding 50 of the intesHne circumference, removed by 5 cm from one of the incision lines, and 5.3 from the opposite one. The lesion inltrates macroscopically the muscular membrane. DiverHculum 1 cm in diameter found outside the tumour.Macroscopic descripOon : A 12 cm length of the large intesHne with fat Hssue sized 14 x 6 x 9.5 cm. Tumour sized 4 x 3 x 1.5 cm detected in the mucosa. The lesion surrounding 50 of the intesHne circumference, removed by 5 cm from one of the incision lines, and 5.3 from the opposite one. The lesion inltrates macroscopically the muscular membrane. DiverHculum 1 cm in diameter found outside the tumour.Macroscopic descripOon : A 12 cm length of the large intesHne with fat Hssue sized 14 x 6 x 9.5 cm. Tumour sized 4 x 3 x 1.5 cm detected in the mucosa. The lesion surrounding 50 of the intesHne circumference, removed by 5 cm from one of the incision lines, and 5.3 from the opposite one. The lesion inltrates macroscopically the muscular membrane. DiverHculum 1 cm in diameter found outside the tumour. Microscopic descripOon : Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare G2. InltraHo carcinomatosa profunda tunicae muscularis propriae . Incision lines free of neoplasHc lesions. LymphonoduliHs reacHva No XI.Microscopic descripOon : Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare G2. InltraHo carcinomatosa profunda tunicae muscularis propriae . Incision lines free of neoplasHc lesions. LymphonoduliHs reacHva No XI.Microscopic descripOon : Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare G2. InltraHo carcinomatosa profunda tunicae muscularis propriae . Incision lines free of neoplasHc lesions. LymphonoduliHs reacHva No XI.Microscopic descripOon : Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare G2. InltraHo carcinomatosa profunda tunicae muscularis propriae . Incision lines free of neoplasHc lesions. LymphonoduliHs reacHva No XI.Microscopic descripOon : Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare G2. InltraHo carcinomatosa profunda tunicae muscularis propriae . Incision lines free of neoplasHc lesions. LymphonoduliHs reacHva No XI.Microscopic descripOon : Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare G2. InltraHo carcinomatosa profunda tunicae muscularis propriae . Incision lines free of neoplasHc lesions. LymphonoduliHs reacHva No XI.Microscopic descripOon : Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare G2. InltraHo carcinomatosa profunda tunicae muscularis propriae . Incision lines free of neoplasHc lesions. LymphonoduliHs reacHva No XI.Microscopic descripOon : Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare G2. InltraHo carcinomatosa profunda tunicae muscularis propriae . Incision lines free of neoplasHc lesions. LymphonoduliHs reacHva No XI.Microscopic descripOon : Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare G2. InltraHo carcinomatosa profunda tunicae muscularis propriae . Incision lines free of neoplasHc lesions. LymphonoduliHs reacHva No XI.Microscopic descripOon : Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare G2. InltraHo carcinomatosa profunda tunicae muscularis propriae . Incision lines free of neoplasHc lesions. LymphonoduliHs reacHva No XI.Microscopic descripOon : Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare G2. InltraHo carcinomatosa profunda tunicae muscularis propriae . Incision lines free of neoplasHc lesions. LymphonoduliHs reacHva No XI.Microscopic descripOon : Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare G2. InltraHo carcinomatosa profunda tunicae muscularis propriae . Incision lines free of neoplasHc lesions. LymphonoduliHs reacHva No XI. Compliance validated by: Compliance validated by: Compliance validated by: Compliance validated by: Compliance validated by: Compliance validated by: Compliance validated by: Histopathological Diagnosis: Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare coli. Tubulopapillar adenocarcinoma of the colon. G2, Dukes B, Astler - Coller BI, pT2, pNO. CONTACT YOU DOCTOR WITH THIS REPORT! 
 SPECIMENS: A. LEFT COLON SPECIMENS: A. LEFT COLON INTRAOPERATIVE CONSULTATION DIAGNOSIS: A-left colon: Tumor mass is 9 cm away from the distal margin, called by GROSS DESCRIPTION: A. LEFT COLON Received fresh labeled with the patients identification and left colon is a 24 cm segment of colon with circumference of 7.5 cm with a suture designating the distal margin. The serosa is unremarkable. The mesocolon and serosa, subjacent to the mass, is inked black. A 9 x 6.5 x 3cm circumferential, polypoid, indurated, necrotic mass is present, 9 cm from the distal margin, involving the subserosal fat. Proximal mucosa has diverticuli and 3 polyps, 0.2 cm, 0.3 cm, and 0.5 cm. A gross assessment is conveyed to O. R., a photograph is taken, and tissue is procured. Representatively submitted: A1: shave of proximal margin A2: shave of distal margin A3-A8: mass A9: possible diverticuli A10: polyps A11: normal appearing mucosa extending into flattened mucosa A12-A13: proximal, 6 possible lym ph nodes in each cassette A14: proximal, 1 lymph node A15-A16: distal, 6 possible lymph nodes in each cassette A17: distal, 4 lymph nodes DIAGNOSIS: COLON, LEFT, RESECTION: - INVASIVE MUCINOUS ADENOCARCINOMA, MODERATELY DIFFERENTIATED, ARISING IN A TUBULOVILLOUS ADENOMA. - TUMOR MEASURES 9 X 6.5 X 3 CM. - TUMOR INVOLVES THE SUBSEROSA. - MARGINS, FREE OF TUMOR. - METASTASTIC CARCINOMA IN TWO OF 26 LYMPH NODES 226. - TWO TUBULAR ADENOMAS. - DIVERTICULOSIS. NOTE: On slide A3, mucin with fibrosis and marked inflammation is seen at an inked radial aspect that is fragmented. Tumor is not definitely identified at the radial margin. Dr. concurs. Clinical -surgical correlation is recommended. SYNOPTIC REPORT - COLON  RECTUM Specimen Type: Left hemicolectomy Tumor Site: Left descending colon Tumor Configuration: Exophytic polypoid Infiltrative Tumor size: 9cm Additional dimensions 6.5cm x 3cm WHO Classification Mucinous adenocarcinoma 84803 Histologic Grade: G2: Moderately differentiat ed Extent of Invasion: Subserosa Margins: Margins uninvolved by invasive carcinoma Proximal, Distal, Radial VenousLymphatic Invasion: Present Perineural Invasion: Absent Additional Pathologic Findings: Adenoma Extent of Resection: R0: Complete resection with grossly and microscopically negative margins Lymph Nodes: Positive 2  26 Extranodal extension: Absent Implants: Absent Pathological Staging pTNM: pT 3 N 1 M X CLINICAL HISTORY: None given PRE-OPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: Colon cancer 
Diagnosis: This material is an epiploic appendix with inflammatory reactive lesions in I, in II a free anastomosis and in III a moderately differentiated invasive adenocarcinoma of the colon with infiltr ation of the muscularis and vessels G2, pT2, L1, V1. It also shows free resection margins and free lymph nodes pN0 Tumor classification: ICDO -DA M81403 G2 pT2, L1, V1, pN0 0 of 36 Locally R0 M classification in the context of the oncology conference
 TCGA-A6-2672 SPECIMEN Right colon CLINICAL NOTES PRE-OP DIAGNOSIS: Colon cancer GROSS DESCRIPTION Received fresh, subsequently fixed in formalin labelled right colon which is partially covered with pink-tan smooth glistening serosa and yellow lobular fat. The specimen shows a 6.5 x 0.7 em appendix and the specimen is predominately covered with abundant yellow lobular fat. The specimen is opened and has a 6.5 em portion of small bowel and 26 ern of cecum and colon. The specimen shows a large ectophytic mass v1hich is 7. 0 x 5. 5 x 1. 2 em. This is located 6.5 em from the distal margin. The cut surface of the tumor shows gross invasion into the muscularis propria, however, of shmling possible invasion into the fat. This comes within 6. 5 em the radial margin. No other discrete gross lesions are identified. The average circumference of the small bowel is 4.0 em and the average circumference of the cecum and colon is 7.0 ern. Representative sections of the specimen are submitted as follows: BLOCK SUMMARY: 1 -representative luminal margins and ileocecal valve; 2 -representative section of appendix with proximal end inked; 3-5 -representative sections of tumor to normal and fat; 6 radial margin with lymph node at radial margin; 7-8 -nine possible lymph nodes; 9 -six possible lymph nodes; 10 -three possible lymph nodes; 11 -three possible lymph nodes; 12 -one possible lymph node from near radial margin; 13-14 -one lymph node bisected. RS-14. MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION Histologic type: Adenocarcinoma. Histologic grade: Moderately-differentiated. Primary tumor: pT3 carcinoma penetrates through the muscularis propria, into the subserosal fat . Proximal margin: Negative. Distal margin: Negative. Circumferential radial margin: Negative. Vascular invasion: Probable. Regional lymph nodes pN : One of twenty-nine lymph nodes with metastatic carcinoma . Non-lymph node pericolonic tumor: Not identified. Other findings: Appendix with serosal fat necrosis and otherwise unremarkable; small bowel unremarkable. 5 DIAGNOSIS Right Colon with appendix, small bowel, right hemicolectomy: Adenocarcinoma, moderately differentiated, with invasion through the muscularis propria, into the subserosal fat pT3. Margins of excision negative. One of twenty-nine lymph nodes with metastatic carcinoma . 
 Date Coll: SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT SPECIMEN A. Subtotal colectomy B. Appendix CLINICAL NOTES PRE- OP DIAGNOSIS: Carcinoma splenic flexure POST- OP DIAGNOSIS: Same, hepatic flexure to sigmoid- descending colon junction. GROSS DESCRIPTION A. Received fresh labeled subtotal colectomy is a previously unopened and unoriented 35 cm. segment of colon surfaced by smooth to slightly scabrous tan- pink serosa with a copious amount of attached mesocolon and omentum. A palpable area of induration is noted. The omentum overlying the area is focally retracted and subsequently inked orange. The pre- serosal surface in the vicinity of the palpable mass is inked black. The undesignated margins measure 6.0 and 6.5 cm. in circumference respectively. Upon opening, there is a circumferential 10.5 x 9.5 cm. focally necrotic glistening tan- pink tumor mass which is 9 cm. from the larger circumference margin. On sectioning, the tumor has a maximal thickness of 2.4 cm. grossly extending through the muscularis to within 0.15 cm. of the inked pre- serosal surface block 4 and adherent omentum see blocks 2 and 3. A portion of tumor and a portion of normal mucosa are submitted for tissue procurement as requested. A pedunculated 1.2 x 0.8 x 0.6 cm. tan pink- red polyp is present within 2 cm. of the margin of the tumor mass between the tumor mass and the larger circumference margin. The remaining mucosa is unremarkable glistening tan- pink with regular folds and the wall averages 0.7 cm. A single shallow diverticulum is also identified. Several soft to slightly rubbery mucoid- appearing tan- white tissues in keeping with lymph nodes measuring up to 1.3 cm. in greatest dimension are recovered from the attached mesocolon. Representative sections are submitted in fifteen 15 blocks as labeled:  BLOCK SUMMARY: 1 - Undesignated margins smaller circumference margin inked blue larger, circumference margin closest to tumor inked green; 2,3 - tumor to inked indurated omentum; 4 - tumor to inked free radial serosal surface; 5 - central tumor; 6 - tumor to normal mucosa; 7,8 - bisected polyp 12 per cassette; 9,10 - random from remainder of specimen; 11 - eight 8 whole lymph nodes; 12,13 - seven 7 whole lymph nodes per cassette; 14 - six 6 whole lymph nodes; 15 - one 1 bisected lymph node. B. Received in formalin labeled appendix is a 5.0 x 0.7 cm. gross unremarkable appendix. The specimen is sectioned to show an intact wall. discrete gross lesions are identified. Representative sections of the specimen are submitted in one cassette with the proximal end inked blue. RS-1. : MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION Histologic type: Mucinous adenocarcinoma. Histologic grade: Moderately differentiated. Primary tumor pT: Tumor invades completely through the wall of the colon into the omental fat pT4b. Proximal margin: Negative. Distal margin: Negative. Circumferential radial margin: Negative. Vascular invasion: Negative. Regional lymph nodes pN: 2 of 30 mesenteric lymph nodes contain metastatic mucinous adenocarcinoma pN1b. Non- lymph node pericolonic tumor: Absent. Distant metastasis pM: pMx Other findings: Adenomatous polyp. Appendix with appendiceal lymph node without significant histopatholgic findings. 5, 1 N DIAGNOSIS A. Colon, subtotal colectomy: Invasive moderately differentiated mucinous adenocarcinoma extending through the wall of the colon into the omental fat. Proximal, distal and radial margins of resection are free of tumor. Two of 30 mesenteric lymph nodes contain metastatic mucinous adenocarcinoma 230. Adenomatous polyp. B. Appendix, appendectomy: No significant histopathologic findings. Periappendiceal lymph node without significant pathologic findings.  --- End Of Report --- 
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT Clinical Diagnosis  History:   old wi th sigmoid colon cancer. Specimens Submitted; 1: SP: Colon, terminal ileum, appendix; total colectomy DIAGNOSIS: 1. SP: Colon, terminal ileum, appendix; total colectomy: TUmor Type: Adenocarcinoma Histologic Grade: Moderately differentiated TUmor Location: Sigmoid colon Tumor Size: Length is 3 cm Width is 4 cm Maximal thickness is 0.3 cm Tumor Budding: Focal Increased TUmor Infiltrating Lymphocytes: Absent Precursor Lesions; TUbular adenoma Deepest Tumor Invasion: Subserosal adipose tissue andor mesenteric fat Gross TUmor Perforation: Not identified Lymphovascular Invasion: Identified Large Venous Invasion: Not Identified Perineural Invasion: Identified surgical Margins: Free of tumor PolypsMucosa Dysplasia away from the carcinoma: Tubular adenoma; number: 3 Non-Neoplastic Bowel: Extensive melanosis coli  Continued on next page  ------------------------------------------------------------ Page 2 of 3 Appendix: Unremarkable Lymph Nodes: Number with metastasis: 3 Total number examined: 108 TUmor Staging AJCC 7th Edition: pT3 TUmor invades through the muscularis propria into pericolorectal tissues Lymph Node Stage AJCC 7th Edition: NIb Metastasis in 2-3 regional lymph nodes NOTE: THE IMMUNOHISTOCHEMICAL STAINING FOR THE TESTED DNA MISMATCH REPAIR PROTEINS MLHl, MSH2, MSH6, PMS2 IS RETAINED IN THE TUMOR. I ATTEST THAT THE ABOVE DIAGNOSIS IS BASED UPON MY PERSONAL EXAMINATION OF THE SLIDES ANDOR OTHER MATERIAL, AND THAT I HAVE REVIEWED AND APPROVED Special Studies: Result Gross Description: Signed Out  IIIIt Special Stain RECUT Comment 1. The specimen is received fresh, labeled total colectomy and consists of a segment of terminal ileum, cecum with attached appendix, ascending, transverse, descending and sigmoid colon. The terminal ileum measures 12 cm in length and 3.5 cm in circumference at the proximal resected margin. The remaining colon measures 95.5 in length with a circumference of nine cm at the distal resected margin. The attached appendix measures 8 cm in length and averages 0.5 cm in diameter. The appendiceal and intestinal serosa is pink tan and smooth. Focally hemorrhagic lobulated yellow tan adipose tissue spans the length of the specimen measuring up to 2.5 cm in thickness. The specimen is opened to reveal a mass lesion measuring 3 em in length and 4 cm in width. The mass is located in the sigmoid colon, 85 em from the proximal margin and 7 cm from the distal margin. Sectioning shows that the tumor invades the muscularis propria and possibly the serosa. The depth of invasion is 0.3 cm grossly. The remaining mucosa shows two sessile polyp, measuring 0.5 x 0.5 x 0 .3 and 0.3 x 0.2 x 0.2 cm. The attached adipose tissue is submitted for lymph node dissection and all identified lymph nodes are submitted. The colon is extensively sampled with representative sections submitted for permanent sections and for TPS. Summary of sections: PM proximal margin shave DM -distal margin shave  Continued on next page  ---------------------------------- Page 3 of 3 T tumor P polyps A appendix representative sections RS -representative sections Summary of Sections: Part 1: SP: Colon, terminal ileum, appendix; total colectomy Block Sect. Site PCa 1 A 1 1 DM 1 23 LN 85 1 P 1 1 PM 1 10 RS 10 5 T 5  End of Report  
 CGA-A6-3810 SPECIMEN A. Sigmoid colon -stitch on distal and staple line at proximal end B. Proximal margin of sigmoid colon CLINICAL NOTES PRE-OP DIAGNOSIS: Left colon cancer. GROSS DESCRIPTION A. The specimen is received unfixed, labeled sigmoid colon, and consists of a segment of large bovml, measuring 20 em. in length and 2.8 em. in diameter. There is abundant pericolonic fat and the entire specimen is up to 10 em. in diameter. There is a suture at the open end of the specimen, the opposite end is stapled. There is an area of narrowing Vhere an appendix epiploica is adherent to the serosal surface of the colon. This area is 6 em. from the open end. The bowel is opened with a single like X incision on the antimesenteric surface. There is a napkin ring- fungating mucosal tumor, measuring 6 em. in length and 1.2 em. in depth. The tumor is circumferential. It is 6 em. from the distal margin of resection and approximately 11 em. from the proximal margin. Sections after fixation and clearing. A portion of the specimen is taken for research purposes. The fat is dissected off the colon and there is an area that probably represents pericolonic abscess immediately adjacent to the tumor. This area might be associated with diverticulum. MLM:men Block summary: 1, 2 margins of resection; 3 -7 tumor; A. 10-22 pericolonic lymph nodes. B. The specimen is received unfixed labeled proximal margin of sigmoid colon11 and consists of a piece of lhite  and yellow soft tissue with stapes in it. The specimen measures 4 1 x 0.4 em. RS-1. MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION A. Tumor type: Colonic adenocarcinoma Tumor grade: 2 out of 3 Tumor size: 6 em Distance to nearest margin: 6 em Level of penetration: Carcinoma penetrates into pericolonic fat. Margins of resection: Negative for malignancy Vascular invasion: Absent Host response: Marked acute and chronic inflammation. One area resembles a diverticulum with pericOlonic abscess, diverticulum destruction and carcinoma block A7 Attached lymph nodes: There is no evidence of malignancy in any of 30 lymph nodes. Non-lymph node pericolonic tumor: Absent pTNM Stage: T3 NO B. Negative for malignancy 5, 3 DIAGNOSIS A. Sigmoid colon, segmental resection: Moderately differentiated colonic adenocarcinoma Note: Carcinoma invades through the muscularis propria into pericolonic soft tissue. There is no evidence of malignancy in any of 30 pericolonic lymph nodes. B. Sigmoid colon, proximal margin, biopsy: Negative for malignancy 
UUID:2E442714- A485-4801-90FD-9419ABD94D9C TCGA-DM-A0XF-01A-PR Redacted II I II 111 III 1 II 1111II 1 III 11111 11111 III 11111111111111 I II IIII III III IIIII I I I II II iii iiII I I I IIIII II II I I I III I II I I II I I III I I I II I II II I III III IIIIIIIIIIIIIIII1111IIIIIllIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII TSS Patient ID: Sample Procurement: Date: Gender: l Date of Birth: Vital Status: Deceased Date of Death: Race: White Ethnicity: Not Hispanic or Latino Specific Ethnicity: Histologic Subtype: Colon adenocarcinoma Date of Initial Path Dx: Primary Site: Colons Anatomic Site: Sigmoid Colon T Stage: 3 N Stage: 1 M Stage: 1 Overall Stage: IV Date of Normal Procurement: lc-  -3 pce wc.an.. no s81toI3 d Coto NJ Crterla . Diagnosis Oiacrepancy PrimaryTumor Site Discrepancy HIPAA Discrepancy Prior Mali nan Histu t N ry DualSynO rnnous a oteJYes Caseis ;.trclay QUALIfii0 ; QU, F,ioll1 Reviewer Initial ate Rev, wed.GI.7 N0 ttI
 Diagnosis  Diagnoses:  24-cm-long resection of the colon under inclusion of a poorly differentiated, largely ulcerated adenocarcinoma, of a maximum of 3.5 cm in diameter and of the colorectal type, with infiltration of the pericolic fatty tissue p T3; G3. Tumor -free resection margins of the colon. Three tubular adenomas in the colonic mucosa with low - to moderate- grade dysplasia in the remainder. A follow -up report will be made on the lymph node status. Follow -up report: A total of 28 histologic ally tumor -free lymph nodes of a maximum of 0.8 cm in diameter were determined after acetone fixation. Final tumor stage: pT3 pN0 028 pMX; G3 
Formatted Path Report LARGE INTESTINE TISSUE CHECKLIST Specimen type: Excision of tumor Specimen size: Not specifiedTumor site: Sigmoid colonTumor size: 7 x 6 x 1.7 cmTumor features: Exophytic polypoidHistologic type: AdenocarcinomaHistologic grade: Moderately differentiatedTumor extent: Muscularis propriaLymph nodes: 05 positive for metastasis Regional 05Margins: UninvolvedEvidence of neo-adjuvant treatment: Not specifiedAdditional pathologic findings: Not specifiedComments: None Date of Procurement
Diagnosis: This is a poorly differentiated solid carcinoma in the ascending colon of histopathological differentiation grade G 3, with necrosis, with ulceration of the inner tumor surface, with peritumorous chronic recurrent secondary inflammation with acut e inflammatory activity, with carcinomatous lymphangi tis, with tumor infiltration of the layers of the colon wall extending to the extramuscular subserous fatty connective tissue, with tumor -free lymph nodes 012 and also tumor -free overview s lices from all other portions of the preparation described. No evidence of serous carcinosis. The tumor spread of the colon carcinoma according to the section preparations available corresponds to a tumor stage of pT3, pN0 012 , MX, L1, R0 Tumor classification : ICDO -DA M -81403, G 3 
Resected ileocolic material displaying in the colon ascendens, located 2 cm distal to the ileocecal valve, an adenocarcinoma of colorectal type measuring a maximum of 4 cm in diameter, ulcerated, moderately differentiated and with infiltration o f the perifocal adipose tissue. Tumor -free lymph nodes in this region. Tumor -free small and large intestine resection margins. Tumor -free mesenteric resection margin. Tumor -free appendix. Tumor - free omental adipose tissue. Diagnosis: Tumor stage therefore pT3, pN0 039 pMX; G2, L0, V0, local R0 
This is an unequivocal finding in the sense of an adenocarcinoma of the colon Block A of the mucinous adenocarcinoma type thus G3, with penetration of all parietal layers and vascular infiltration, thus pT3, L1, V1, with free resection margins in the mucosal region with a regular mucosa, submucosa and muscularis, with free resection margins in the ligature region with mature mesenchymal structures, with a chronic recurrent appendicitis with fecal impaction. Tumor classification: ICDO -DA-M G 3 pT3, L 1, V1, pN0 014 
Diagnosis: Colon resection material includes a mucinous, moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma of the colorectal type, showing circular growth and measuring a maximum of 5 cm in diameter with widespread infiltration of the pericolic fatty tissue and with five regional lymph node metastases. Tumor -free colon resection margins. Close to one resection margin a clip -marked mucosal defect with florid inflammatory lesions and fibrin insudation of the submucosa, evidently in status post excision of a polyp or a neoplasia see previous finding Tumor stage: pT3 pN2 530 M1 clinically liver metastases; G2, L0, V0, clinically R2 
Light microscopic findings 1. In relation to histology, an advanced carcinoma in block A is visible in the material at hand, severely necrotic here. Tumor cells are classified in relation to a colic adenocarcinoma, specifically characteristic tubular formatio ns, extensive necroses as well numerous nuclear atypia. The tumor is penetrating all wall layers as well as vessels, consistent with p T 1, L1, V1. Only granulation tissue is visible in the region of the serosa. Tumor classification summary: ICDO -DA-M 81403 G 2 - 3 p T 3 L1, V1 p N 0 Consistent with R0 
 page 1  1 page 1  1 page 1  1 page 1  1 page 1  1 page 1  1 Department of Cancer Pathology Department of Cancer Pathology Department of Cancer Pathology Department of Cancer Pathology Department of Cancer Pathology Department of Cancer Pathology Department of Cancer Pathology Department of Cancer Pathology Department of Cancer Pathology Department of Cancer Pathology ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon Internal invoice No.Internal invoice No.Internal invoice No.Internal invoice No. Cost of diagnosPc procedureCost of diagnosPc procedureCost of diagnosPc procedureCost of diagnosPc procedureCost of diagnosPc procedureCost of diagnosPc procedureCost of diagnosPc procedure ExaminaFon No.: ExaminaFon No.: PaPent: XXXPaPent: XXXPaPent: XXX PESEL: XXXPESEL: XXXPESEL: XXX Age: Age: Gender: Gender: Gender: Gender: Gender: Material: 1. MulFple organ resecFon  sigmoid colon Material: 1. MulFple organ resecFon  sigmoid colon Material: 1. MulFple organ resecFon  sigmoid colon Material: 1. MulFple organ resecFon  sigmoid colon Material: 1. MulFple organ resecFon  sigmoid colon Material: 1. MulFple organ resecFon  sigmoid colon Material: 1. MulFple organ resecFon  sigmoid colon Material: 1. MulFple organ resecFon  sigmoid colon Material: 1. MulFple organ resecFon  sigmoid colon Material: 1. MulFple organ resecFon  sigmoid colon Material: 1. MulFple organ resecFon  sigmoid colon Material: 1. MulFple organ resecFon  sigmoid colon Material: 1. MulFple organ resecFon  sigmoid colon Unit in charge: Unit in charge: Unit in charge: Unit in charge: Unit in charge: Unit in charge: Unit in charge: Unit in charge: Unit in charge: Unit in charge: Unit in charge: Unit in charge: Unit in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Material collected on: Material collected on: Material received on:Material received on:Material received on:Material received on:Material received on:Material received on: Expected Pme of examinaPon: Expected Pme of examinaPon: Expected Pme of examinaPon: Expected Pme of examinaPon: Expected Pme of examinaPon: Expected Pme of examinaPon: Expected Pme of examinaPon: Expected Pme of examinaPon: Expected Pme of examinaPon: Expected Pme of examinaPon: Expected Pme of examinaPon: Expected Pme of examinaPon: Expected Pme of examinaPon: Clinical diagnosis: Sigmoid colon with tumourClinical diagnosis: Sigmoid colon with tumourClinical diagnosis: Sigmoid colon with tumourClinical diagnosis: Sigmoid colon with tumourClinical diagnosis: Sigmoid colon with tumourClinical diagnosis: Sigmoid colon with tumourClinical diagnosis: Sigmoid colon with tumourClinical diagnosis: Sigmoid colon with tumourClinical diagnosis: Sigmoid colon with tumourClinical diagnosis: Sigmoid colon with tumourClinical diagnosis: Sigmoid colon with tumourClinical diagnosis: Sigmoid colon with tumourClinical diagnosis: Sigmoid colon with tumour ExaminaPon performed on: ExaminaPon performed on: ExaminaPon performed on: ExaminaPon performed on: ExaminaPon performed on: ExaminaPon performed on: ExaminaPon performed on: ExaminaPon performed on: ExaminaPon performed on: Macroscopic descripPon : A 18.3 cm length of the large intesFne with a piece of mesentery sized 19 x 9 x 4 cm. Tumour sized 5.6 x 6.3 x 1.7 found in the mucosa. The lesion surrounds 100 of the intesFne circumference, is removed by 9.8 cm from the proximal incision line, and 7.2 cm from the distal incision line.Macroscopic descripPon : A 18.3 cm length of the large intesFne with a piece of mesentery sized 19 x 9 x 4 cm. Tumour sized 5.6 x 6.3 x 1.7 found in the mucosa. The lesion surrounds 100 of the intesFne circumference, is removed by 9.8 cm from the proximal incision line, and 7.2 cm from the distal incision line.Macroscopic descripPon : A 18.3 cm length of the large intesFne with a piece of mesentery sized 19 x 9 x 4 cm. Tumour sized 5.6 x 6.3 x 1.7 found in the mucosa. The lesion surrounds 100 of the intesFne circumference, is removed by 9.8 cm from the proximal incision line, and 7.2 cm from the distal incision line.Macroscopic descripPon : A 18.3 cm length of the large intesFne with a piece of mesentery sized 19 x 9 x 4 cm. Tumour sized 5.6 x 6.3 x 1.7 found in the mucosa. The lesion surrounds 100 of the intesFne circumference, is removed by 9.8 cm from the proximal incision line, and 7.2 cm from the distal incision line.Macroscopic descripPon : A 18.3 cm length of the large intesFne with a piece of mesentery sized 19 x 9 x 4 cm. Tumour sized 5.6 x 6.3 x 1.7 found in the mucosa. The lesion surrounds 100 of the intesFne circumference, is removed by 9.8 cm from the proximal incision line, and 7.2 cm from the distal incision line.Macroscopic descripPon : A 18.3 cm length of the large intesFne with a piece of mesentery sized 19 x 9 x 4 cm. Tumour sized 5.6 x 6.3 x 1.7 found in the mucosa. The lesion surrounds 100 of the intesFne circumference, is removed by 9.8 cm from the proximal incision line, and 7.2 cm from the distal incision line.Macroscopic descripPon : A 18.3 cm length of the large intesFne with a piece of mesentery sized 19 x 9 x 4 cm. Tumour sized 5.6 x 6.3 x 1.7 found in the mucosa. The lesion surrounds 100 of the intesFne circumference, is removed by 9.8 cm from the proximal incision line, and 7.2 cm from the distal incision line.Macroscopic descripPon : A 18.3 cm length of the large intesFne with a piece of mesentery sized 19 x 9 x 4 cm. Tumour sized 5.6 x 6.3 x 1.7 found in the mucosa. The lesion surrounds 100 of the intesFne circumference, is removed by 9.8 cm from the proximal incision line, and 7.2 cm from the distal incision line.Macroscopic descripPon : A 18.3 cm length of the large intesFne with a piece of mesentery sized 19 x 9 x 4 cm. Tumour sized 5.6 x 6.3 x 1.7 found in the mucosa. The lesion surrounds 100 of the intesFne circumference, is removed by 9.8 cm from the proximal incision line, and 7.2 cm from the distal incision line.Macroscopic descripPon : A 18.3 cm length of the large intesFne with a piece of mesentery sized 19 x 9 x 4 cm. Tumour sized 5.6 x 6.3 x 1.7 found in the mucosa. The lesion surrounds 100 of the intesFne circumference, is removed by 9.8 cm from the proximal incision line, and 7.2 cm from the distal incision line.Macroscopic descripPon : A 18.3 cm length of the large intesFne with a piece of mesentery sized 19 x 9 x 4 cm. Tumour sized 5.6 x 6.3 x 1.7 found in the mucosa. The lesion surrounds 100 of the intesFne circumference, is removed by 9.8 cm from the proximal incision line, and 7.2 cm from the distal incision line.Macroscopic descripPon : A 18.3 cm length of the large intesFne with a piece of mesentery sized 19 x 9 x 4 cm. Tumour sized 5.6 x 6.3 x 1.7 found in the mucosa. The lesion surrounds 100 of the intesFne circumference, is removed by 9.8 cm from the proximal incision line, and 7.2 cm from the distal incision line.Macroscopic descripPon : A 18.3 cm length of the large intesFne with a piece of mesentery sized 19 x 9 x 4 cm. Tumour sized 5.6 x 6.3 x 1.7 found in the mucosa. The lesion surrounds 100 of the intesFne circumference, is removed by 9.8 cm from the proximal incision line, and 7.2 cm from the distal incision line. Microscopic descripPon : Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare Gl. InltraFo carcinomatosa telae adiposae pericolicae. Incision lines free of neoplasFc lesions. LymphonoduliFs reacFva NO VIII.Microscopic descripPon : Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare Gl. InltraFo carcinomatosa telae adiposae pericolicae. Incision lines free of neoplasFc lesions. LymphonoduliFs reacFva NO VIII.Microscopic descripPon : Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare Gl. InltraFo carcinomatosa telae adiposae pericolicae. Incision lines free of neoplasFc lesions. LymphonoduliFs reacFva NO VIII.Microscopic descripPon : Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare Gl. InltraFo carcinomatosa telae adiposae pericolicae. Incision lines free of neoplasFc lesions. LymphonoduliFs reacFva NO VIII.Microscopic descripPon : Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare Gl. InltraFo carcinomatosa telae adiposae pericolicae. Incision lines free of neoplasFc lesions. LymphonoduliFs reacFva NO VIII.Microscopic descripPon : Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare Gl. InltraFo carcinomatosa telae adiposae pericolicae. Incision lines free of neoplasFc lesions. LymphonoduliFs reacFva NO VIII.Microscopic descripPon : Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare Gl. InltraFo carcinomatosa telae adiposae pericolicae. Incision lines free of neoplasFc lesions. LymphonoduliFs reacFva NO VIII.Microscopic descripPon : Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare Gl. InltraFo carcinomatosa telae adiposae pericolicae. Incision lines free of neoplasFc lesions. LymphonoduliFs reacFva NO VIII.Microscopic descripPon : Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare Gl. InltraFo carcinomatosa telae adiposae pericolicae. Incision lines free of neoplasFc lesions. LymphonoduliFs reacFva NO VIII.Microscopic descripPon : Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare Gl. InltraFo carcinomatosa telae adiposae pericolicae. Incision lines free of neoplasFc lesions. LymphonoduliFs reacFva NO VIII.Microscopic descripPon : Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare Gl. InltraFo carcinomatosa telae adiposae pericolicae. Incision lines free of neoplasFc lesions. LymphonoduliFs reacFva NO VIII.Microscopic descripPon : Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare Gl. InltraFo carcinomatosa telae adiposae pericolicae. Incision lines free of neoplasFc lesions. LymphonoduliFs reacFva NO VIII.Microscopic descripPon : Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare Gl. InltraFo carcinomatosa telae adiposae pericolicae. Incision lines free of neoplasFc lesions. LymphonoduliFs reacFva NO VIII. Compliance validated by: Compliance validated by: Compliance validated by: Compliance validated by: Compliance validated by: Compliance validated by: Compliance validated by: Compliance validated by: Histopathological diagnosis: Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare coli. Tubulopapillar adenocarcinoma of the colon. Gl, Dukes B, Astler - Coller B2, pT3, pNO. CONTACT YOUR DOCTOR WITH THIS REPORT! 
Diagnosis 1. Right hemicolectomy preparation with an ulcerated colon carcinoma characterized histologically as a poorly differentiated colorectal adenocarcinoma, located 1 cm from Bauhins valve, encircling the intestinal wall at a length of 4.5 cm. Invasive spreading of the tumor within all intestinal wall layers to the level of the subserosa and to the mesocolic fatty tissue. Lymphangial branches in the area of the tumor margin. The peritoneum of the mesocolon displays small-nodular metastasis of the colon c arcinoma . Colon mucous membrane otherwise with a tubulovillous adenoma with moderate epithelial dysplasia synonym: mild intraepithelial neoplasia. Ileum with evidence of a chronic mechanical ileus. Appendix with post inflammatory fibrosis and fibroid lume n obturation in the apical area. Oral and aboral resection margin as well as greater omentum are tumor -free. Five of 23 local lymph nodes with extensive metastases of the colon carcinoma, partly transcending the lymph node capsules. In the mesenterium there is a clearly defined mesenchymal spindle cell tumor, measuring 0.5 cm . 2. Small nodular peritoneal metastasis of the colon carcinoma roof of the bladder. The tumor stage is therefore pT3 pN2 523 L1, V0, M1  G3 R0 
Clinical Diagnosis Ei llisl::ory: Sigmoid cancer. Specimens Subitted: 1: SP: Sigmoid colon  2: SP: Proximal donut  3: SP: Distal donu  DIAGNOS!St l, L.P,.RGE BOWEL, SIGMOIDJ RESECTION: TUMOR TYPE: ADE.NOCiRCINOMA, MODERATEJY DIFFERENTIATED. TUMOR LOCATION1 SIGMOID. TUMOR SIZE1 LENGTH XS 4. 4 CH, WIDlH IS 3, 7 CM. GROSS COlfFIGURAlXON 1 FONGATING, PRBBtlSTING POLYP AT THE SITE OF THE CARCXNOMA: IDENTIIED, OF UBOLOVILOUS TYPE. TUMOR INVASION: INVASION INTO MUSCULARIS PROPRIA, GROSS tUMOR PERFORATION: NOT :D:Bl:nli?IED, S,BROSAL :NVOLVllliENl: NOT lDENllFXED, VASCULJR INVASION: lOT IDENlIFJ:JID, PERIURAL :tNVASIONI NO.l IDENIIFIJID. SURGICAL MARGINS roR COLONIC TUMORS: FREE OF TUMOR, POLYPS AWAY FROM THE CARCINOMA: lWMBER ID:E!NlIF:tED: MOIlIPLE, TYPE IDENTIFIED: HYPERPLASTIC POLYP.  TATTOO PIGSMNT IS NOTED INVOl.VIJlG MOSCOLARIS PROPRIA IN THE AREA ADJACENT TO THE TUMOR, CONS!Sn:J:fr WXIlt PRIOR BIOPSY SITE, -THE PATHOLOGIC STGB IS  : pT2 TUMOR INVAl.ES MUSCULARIS PROPRIA.  LYMPH HODES: llUMDf. WITH METASTASESI -THB PATHOLOGIC STAGE XS  ; METASTASES ARE IDENTIFIW. 2. COLON, PROXIMAL DONOT1 EXCISIOU: UNREMARKABLE COLONIC TISSUE, 3, COLON, DXSTAL DONUl1 EXCISION1 UNREMARKABLE COLONIC TISSUE, 0, NUMBER EXAMINED: 17. pNO HO REGIONAL LYMPH NODE  Continued on next page  TCGA-CM-4746 ------------------------------------------------------- Page 2 of 3 I 2TTEST lHAT tHE ABOV DIAGNOSIS IS BASED UPON M! PERSONAL EXAMINATION of THE SLIDES ANllOR OTI1ER. Ml.TERIA!o, AbW THAT I KA JI.EVIEWBD AND APPROVED THXS REPORT. l, The opecimen i received freah and a labled sigmoid colon. It consists of a segment of colon that easures 13.9 em in lengCh by 6.9 em in circumference at proximl resection margin inked yellow and 9.0 em in circumference at diatal resectio margin inked blue, The serosal aurfnce is smooth, The specimen is opeUed to reveal a pink fungating tumor that ia located 4,0 em from the distal rgin and 4.2 em from proximal margin. The tWf.OC measures 4, 4 em in length u.nd 3,7 em itt width, Serial sectioning reveals tumor invaBion to a depth of 0.1 em, which is 0,5 em from the serosa. h remaining mucosa shows at least 16 polyp measuring from o.i to 0,4 em in greatest dimension. Periolio and peirectal adipose tissue is thoroughly examined for lymph oodeg, and all possible nodes are submitted. Representative sections are submitted. The tURor is entiely sUbmitted. TPS is submitted. summary of sections: PM  proximal margin DM -d1stul margin T tumor 0  uninvolved mucosa P --polyps LN --lymph lodes 2. The speoimen is received in form;;tlin, labeled proximal donut and consists of a riog o pink tan soft tissue measuring 2 X 2 x 1.5 em, Multiple sutures and staples are attached. The mucosal surface is pink tan and focally hemorrhagic, The sutures and staples are removed and the soft tissue is entirely submitted. Summary of sections: u -undesigntted 3. The specimen consists of a ring of the mucosa ;tu removed Summary of peetiona1 uundesignated labeled D;.atal donut11 and pin tan aoft tidaue measuring 2,5 x 2.2 x 1.3 and tirely submitted.  Continued on next page   em.  summary of Sect:i.ons1 Part 11 SPo Sigmoid colon  Block Sect, site PC9 l dm l 6 ln 18 5 p 5 l pm 1 3 t 3 l  l Part 2 SP; Prox5.mal donut  Block sect. Site PC9 1 u 1 Part 3 SP: Distal donut  Block sect. site PC9 l u 1  End of Report  
FINAL PATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS : Right colectomy with attached portion of terminal ileum: Two carcinomas of colon. T urnor Characteristics: 1. Histologic type for both: fdenocarcinoma . I 2. Histologic grade for both: Moderately differentiated. 3, T urnor site for both: Splenic flexure area. 4. Tumor size: Largest 2.9 x 2.6 x 0.5 em, smallest 1.6 x 1.4 x 0.3 em. 5, Lymphovasc ular space invasion: Not identified 6. Microscopic tumor extension: a. Largest tumor. exhibits invasion not quite complete ly through the muscularis propria. b. Smallest tumor does not invade muscularis propria. 7. Treatment effect None identified. Surgical Margin Status: 1. Proximal margin nearest to largest tumor: 14.3 em. 2. Distal margin nearest to smaner tumor: Approximately 4.0 em. 3, Circumferential radial margin which is closest to largest tumor. 0.4 cm. 4. Distance of tumor from closest margin: 0.4 cm. Lymph Node Status: 1. Total number of lymph nodes received: 12. 2. Total number of lymph nodes containing metastatic carcinoma : None 012. Other: 1. Other significant findings: A separate tubular adenoma without high grade dysplasia is noted. 2. pTNM stage: pT2, NO largest tumor. pT1, NO smaJtest tumor. COMMENTS: CLINICAL HISTORY : Preoperative Diagnosis : Postoperative Diagnosis: SymptomsRadiologic Findjgs:  --SPE,ClMEMS:   -------  :1 I;;.H .;1,  AO-6548  , Right colon GROSS DESCRIPTION: Received in formalin and labeled and 1 right colon is an 18.1 em segment of previously opened oolon with an attached 2.6 em segment of small bowel, a moderate amount of pericolic fat, and a 16.6 x 5.3 x 0.7 cm portion of omentum. The appendix is not present. The serosa is smooth and tan-pink. There is a 2.9 x 2.6 cm granular tan-pink mucosal mass with raise borders, 5.8 em, 7.9 cm, and 14.3 cm from the distal margin; ileocecal valve, and proxima! margins, respectively. The cut surface of the mass is graywHlte and appears to extend into the muscularis to a depth of 0.2 cm. The mass does not grossly appear to involve the pericolic fat. At 1.3 em distal to the mass, is a 1.6 x 1.4 cm, tan mucosa! polyp, 4.1 cm from the distal margin. The polyp does not appear to extend into the underlying muscularis. The remainder of the mucosa is tan with the normal folds, with a 1.3 x 0.6 em, ill-defined, firm, tan nodule in the cecal pouch. No additional obvious mucosal lesions are identified. The proximal and distal inner circumferences average 4.5 em and 3.8 em, respectively, and the walJ thickness averages 0.3 cm. There are multiple irregular, tan-yellow firm tissues consistent with probable lymph node, ranging from 0.2 x 0.2 x 0.1 cm to 0.7 x 0.5 x 0.4 em. The specimen is inked, sectioned, and representative sections are submitted as labeled: 1, proximal and distal margins; 2, ileocecal valve; 3 and 4, mass to inked serosa perpendicular; 5, mass to uninvolved mucosa; 6 and 7, mass; 8-11, mucosal polyp. entirely submitted; 12, nodule in cecum, entirely submitted; 13, omentum ; 14-16, five whole possible lymph nodes in each: 17 and 18, three whole probable lymph nodes in each. The blocks are labeled Also received in the j, ;,r::;m ;c yellow and blue cassettes lat,eld t, ,  -AD-6548  , ,; rese .rch s!dy. ------------
This is an invasive, poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma of the colon according to clinical findings the descending colon with penetration of all the parietal layers and vascular infiltrates pT3, L1, V1 with six lymph node metastases 614. Tumor classification: ICDO -DA-M 81403 G3 pT3 L1, V1, pN2 614
 Diagnosis  Diagnoses:  1.: Lymph node with coarse nodular metastasis from a moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma of the colorectal type and thus apparently a metastasis from one of the colorectal carcinomas listed under 2: primarily from the ca rcinoma located in the sigmoid colon. 2.: Resectate of a portion of the colon or rectosigmoid colon with two synchronous colorectal carcinomas: A rectum carcinoma conforming to the histological type of a moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma, extending no closer than 3 cm to the aboral resection margin and with a diameter of 3.5 cm. Invasive spread of tumor as far as the level of the internal portions of the muscularis propria. An ulcerated colon or sigmoid colon carcinoma conforming to the histological type of a moderately differentiated colorectal adenocarcinoma, extending no closer than 12.5 cm to the aboral resection margin and with a greatest diameter of 4 cm. Invasive spread of tumor into the neighboring mesocolic fatty tissue with lymphangitic stra nds of tumor cells in the margins of the tumor. Oral and aboral resection margins tumor -free. Nine of 33 lymph nodes with extensive metastases, sometimes larger than the lymph node capsule, from the colorectal carcinomas. Tumor stage thus pT2 L0, V0; G2 for the rectum carcinoma pT3 L1 V0; G2 for the sigmoid colon carcinoma pN2 1034 
PATHOLOG IC DIAGNOSIS : SPECIMEN DESIGNATED RIGHT COLON 44 cm: ADENOCARCINOMA, moderately differentiated 3.0 cm. Tumor is located in the cecum, forms a polypoid mass, and is ulcerative. Tumor invades into but not through the muscularis propria. Proximal, distal, and radial resection margins are negative for tumor. Intramural lymphovascular invasion is not identified. Perineural invasion is not identified. Peri tumoral respons e is mild. Residual adenoma is present. Hyperplastic polyps, Multiple 5 adenoma ta. Lipoma of ileocec al valve. Fat necrosis, with dystrophic calcifications peritoneal mass. Regional lymph nodes positive :total: 0:13. AJCC Classifica tion 6th Edition : T2 NO MX. CLINICAL DATA: History : Biopsy-proven cecal cancer. Operation : Right colectomy. Operative Findings : Localized colon cancer . Clinica l Diagnosis: Colon cancer. TISSOE SUBMITTED: . AI right colon O.R. CONSOLTATION : SPECIMEN LABELED U -RIGHT COl,ON GROSS ONLY : Cecal mass 3.0 em located 16.0 cm from proximal and 43 em from distal resection margins, grossly. The senior physician certifies that heshe persona lly conducted a gross andor microscopic examination of the described specimens and rendered or confirmed the rapid diagnoses related thereto . GROSS DESCRIPTION: The specimen is received fresh, labeled with the patients name, unit number, and il -right colon, and consis ts of one ileocolectomy specimen measuring 44 em in total length comprised of ileum 14.B em in length x 1.B cm in diameter with proxima l stapled resection margin measuring 2.9 em and inked blue, and colon 42.8 em in length x 5-5.5 em in diameter with distal stapled resection margin measuring 6.2 em and inked green. There is an attached fragment of yellow lobulated fibroadipose tissue consistent with omentum, measuring 25.0 x 11.0 x 1 cm. lhe appendix is absent . The serosa has a nodular puckered area measuring 2.5 x 1.5 cm, which is inked black. The specimen is opened where inked orange to reveal an ulcerated mass measuring 3.0 x 2.5 x 0.4 em in the cecum, which is located 6.0 cm from the proximal stapled resection margin, 43 cm from the distal stapled resection margin, and  14.0 em from the radial resection margin. There is a probable lipoma of the ileocolonic valve measuring 1.5 x 1.5 x 1.0 em. Appendiceal stump is also located and measures 1.0 em in diameter. There are multiple greater than forty scattered sessile polyps measuring up to 0.2. em in greatest dimension . Represen tative sections of the tumor and normal tissue are submitted to Tumor Bank for special studies. Micro AI: Micro A2: Micro A3-A6: Micro A7: Micro 1.8: Micro 1.9: ileal mucosa, Micro AID: Micro All: Micro A12-A16: Micro 1.17 ; stapled resection margin, 2 radial resection margin, 1 frag, cecal mass, 4 frags,  two polyps, 2 frags, polypo id cecal area, 2 trags, I11III representative sections of normal-appearing colonic and 2 frags,  ileocolonic valve with lipoma, 1 trag,  omentum, 1 frag, twelve lymph node candidates, 12 frags, calcified lymph node candidates, 3 frags, signature below, the senior physician certifies that heshe personally conducted a microscopic examinat ion gross only exam if so stated of the described specimens and rendered or confirmed the diagnosis es related thereto. 
Diagnosis: Right -sided hemicolectomy preparation shows tumor -free oral and aboral resection margins and includes an ulcerated, moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma of the transverse colon with infiltration of the perimuscular fatty tissue G2, pT3. Follow -up report: After acetone clearing, 21 lymph nodes up to 0.7 cm in size can be prepared in the pericolic fatty tissue adjoining the tumor. Of these, one lymph node shows metastatic infiltrates of the previously diagnosed adenocarcinoma or colon carcinoma. In conclusion, to summarize, the disease is staged as pT3 pN1 421 L0 V0 R0. 
Path First Tumor Tumor Site: Descending Colon Date of Cancer Sample Procurement: Histology : Adenocarcinoma Description of other histology: I Grade : Moderately Differentiated Mucinous : r No r Yes Foca lYesC Unknown Signet Ring Feature : r No r Yes C YesFocalC Unknown Histologic Heterogeneity : r No C5- Yes r Unknown Host Response: None Crohn s like reaction rNone rYes r Unknown Plasma cell rich stroma C No r Yes C Unknown Growth Pattern: r Expansile r Invasive rExpansile C Unknownand Invasive Inflammatory Bowel Disease rNo r Yes CUnknown Angiolymphatic Invasion : re No r Yes r Unknown Mutator Phenotype: r No re Yes r Unknown Number of Slides 12 Garland Necrosis present : r No re Yes r YesFocalC Unknown TIL Cells  HPF 3.4 Pathologist Comment:I UUID:OA659279- BA92-44AF-9E93-88457ADEC729 TCGA-DM-A2SM-01A-PR Redacted III111111111111111111111111111111111111 N11111111111111111111111111 111111111111111111111111111111 IllIllIllIllIlIll111111111 iiiiiiiiiiiIIllIlIIIlIlIIlIII IIIIIU I IIIIIIIIIIIIIiICO -6-3 a4tZ,rw et4xa, . Nbs 814oi3 Color-- C i Y. b m Ir aiteri, - Yet meparcy Diagnnsls Da Frimary Tumor t,t. Disc repancy I rPFI . Ti:ucPnry  Prior M,tignanry History u:.LSym -....... Pri r y N Re fewer D iti.ls
 DiagnosisDiagnoses:  1.: Excision specimen from peritoneum with angiectasia and subserosal fibrosis. 2.: Colonic resection specimen evidently sigmoid with an ulcerated carcinoma of the colon of the histological type of a moderately differentiated colorectal adenocarcinoma, measuring 2 cm in its largest diameter and extending to a maximum of 8 cm from the resection margin. Invasive tumor spread to the level of the muscularis propria. Oral and aboral resection margin tumor -free. Twenty -six mesocolic lymph nodes tumor -free and with uncharacteristically reactive changes. Tumor stage therefore pT2 pN0 026 L0 V0; G2 R0. 
 Diagnosis  Diagnoses:  1.: Partial colectomy specimen with portions of the terminal ileum and an ulcerated colon carcinoma conforming to the histological type of a moderately differentiated colorectal carcinoma, located 50 cm aborally from Bauhins valve and circularly occupying the colon wall over a length of 5.5 cm. Invasive spread of tumor within all layers of the intestinal wall and extending into the level of the mesocolic fatty tissue. Colon otherwise with three tubulovillous colonic mucosal a denomas, two of which exhibit mild epithelial dysplasia synonym: low -grade intra -epithelial neoplasia, one with severe epithelial dysplasia synonym: high -grade intra- epithelial neoplasia. In the cecum and 0.6 cm aboral to Bauhins valve, a fresh, ulcer ous mucosal defect  status following prior endoscopic removal of adenomas and with no further portions of the adenomas that were removed. Oral and aboral resection margins and large omentum tumor -free. 54 mesocolic and mesenteric lymph nodes tumor -free wi th uncharacteristic reactive changes. Tumor stage thus: pT3 pN0 054, L0, V0; G2.  pT? in cecum 2.: Gall bladder with moderate, barely florid, chronic cholecystitis, probably with cholecystolithiasis. 
Diagnosis: 1.: Colon resection material sigmoid with tumor -free, oral and aboral resection margins includes an ulcerated, moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma with infiltration of the lamina muscularis propria and solitary regional lymph node metasta ses G2, pT2 pN1 126 L1, V0, R0. 2.: Inflammation -free small intestine or Meckels diverticulum without evidence of tissue heterotopy.
PAT!iOLexiIC DIAGNOSIS : A. SPECIMEN DESIGNATED SIGMOID COLON, PARTIAL COLECTOMY  23.2 em: ADENOCARCINOMA, LOW GRADE, MODERATELY DIFFERENTIATED 5.8 em in greatest dimension . Tumor is located in sigmoid colon, forms a polypoid and fungating mass, is ulcerative, and has an infiltrating border. Tumor invades into the muscularis propria . Proximal , distal, and radial resection margins are negative for tumor. Invasive tumor is 7.5 em from the closest mucosal resection margin. Lymphovasc ular invasion is not identified. Extramura l venous invasion is not identi fied. Perineural invasion is not identified . Peri tumoral lymphoid response including Crohn?s-like infiltrate is not present. Residual adenoma is absent . Regional lymph nodes positive : total: 0:13 AJCC Classification -6th edition: pT2 NO MX. Associated diseases include hyperp lastic polyps and diverticulosis. B. SPECIMEN DESIGNATIW PROXIMAL DONUT: Colonic mucosa, negative for tumor. C. SPECIMEN DESIGNATED DISTAL DONUT: Colonic mucosa, negative for tumor. CLINICAL DATA: History: Invasive Operation : Sigmoid Operative Findings: Clinical Diagnosis: adenocarcinoma. colectomy. None gi.ven. Colon CA. TISSUE SUBMITTED:  Al Sigmoid colon - Tissue Bank open and return B2 Proximal donut C3 Distal donut GROSS DESCRIPTION : The specimen is received fresh, and labeled with the patients name and medical record number and consists of three parts. Part A, ill. Sigmoid colon.  consists of a segment of colon 23.2 em in length x 2.8 em in diameter with a 3.2 cm open resection margin inked blue and a 3.0 em stapled resection margin inked green. There is a tanpink centrally ulcerated polypoid mass 5.8 x 3.6 x 0.9 em that is 7.5 em to the stapled resection margin, and 12.6 em to the open resection margin. The mass appears to invade the muscularis. but not through the serosa . A section of this mass is representatively submitted to the tissue bank. fhe radial resection margin is inked black. There is also a tanpink sessile polyp 0.8 x 0.5 x 0.4 cm that is 9.0 em to the open resection margin and 4.5 em from the mass. Ihere are four other tanpink sessile polyps ranging in size from 0.3 to 0.5 cm. The closest of which is 1.0 cm to the open resection margin. A portion of normal colonic mucosa is also submitted to the tissue bank. None of the polyps appear to invade into the lamina propria. Micro AI: Stapled resection margin to in. potential polyp,  frag. Micro A2: Open resection margin, 1 frag, Micro A3-A6: Representat tions of the tumor with radial resection margin, 1 frag per block ........ Micro A7: Polyp 32 that is  from the mass, 1 frag, Micro AS: Polyp 3, 1 frag, Micro A9: Polyp 14 near open. ion margin, I frag, Micro AID: Polyp ,5, 1 trag, Micro All-AI?: Candidate lymp no es, multi fragsllllllll Part B, ;112. Proximal donut,  consists of x 2.1 cm in diameter  that is attached to 2.6 cm in diameter x 5.0 CJn in length. contains no visible lesions is SUbmitted. a portion of bowel 1.0 em in length a circular metallic stapling device The entire portion of bowel which Micro B1: Entirely submitted specimen, 2 frags, Part C. 13. Distal donut, consists of a portion em with no gross lesions. Approximately 80 of the the staples and is submitted. Micro Cl-C2: Distal donut, multi frags, 1.9 em x 1.5 x specimen is separable 0.9 from By hisher signature below. the senior physician certifies that heshe personally conducted a microscopic examination gross only exam if so staLed of the described specimens and rendered or confirmed the diagnosis es related thereto. 
UUID:22C33C79-0791 -40C1-A97C-F1C1AD76063E ed TCGA-AY-ASYK- 01A-PR Redacted III 111111IIIIIIIIIIII111111111IIIIII11IIIIIIIIIIII11111111lIIi11 itl IIIIIII I IIIIIIII I IIIIIIIIII lIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIII III I IIIii II i 111III 111111111111111111111111111111111111IIIIIIIIIIII 111111II II III SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REVISED REPORT 0 Case Number: Tumor Histologic Type: invasive colonic adenocarcinoma see comment Histologic Grade: low grade, grade 2 of 4 moderately differentiated Tumor Size: 5.2 cm in diameter Tumor Location: sigmoid colon, just proximal to rectosigmoid junction Depth of Invasion: through muscularis propria and into pericolonic soft tissues Lymphovascular Invasion: present Perineural Invasion: not identified Margins: Proximal margin: negative, 6.5 cm away Distal margin: negative, 5.0 cm away Mesenteric margin: negative Regional Lymph Nodes: Total number with metastases: 6 Total number examined: 24 Additional Pathologic Findings: none AJCC Pathologic TNM Stage :pT3 pN2a Note: This pathologic stage assessment is based on information available at the time of this report and is subject to change pending clinical review and additional information. Comment: Immunostains for mismatch repair protein expression are pending. The results will be issued as an addendum to this report. Materials will be submitted to the for microsatellite instability testing. These results will be issuedin a separate Molecular Pathology report. Clinical History: -year-old male with a clinical diagnosis of colon cancer. Gross Description: Received is one appropriately labeled container, additionally labeled rectosigmoid junction, stitch is distal and holds a 15 cm in length x 3.5 cm in open circumference segment of large bowel oriented as stated above. The proximal mucosal margin is inked blue, the distal mucosal margin is inked black, and the tinea and surrounding yellow lobulated fat is inked green for identification purposes. Approximately 6.5 cm from the proximal mucosal margin and 5.0 cm from the distal mucosal margin, there is a 5.2 cm proximal to distal x 4.0 cm circumferential tan firm mass with central ulceration and raised edges. The mass on section extends up to 1.2 cm through the muscularis propria into the attached yellow lobulated fat. The mass comes to within 0.8 cm from the yellow intact peritonealized surface. The mass is present at the rectosigmoid junction and is not surrounded by mesorectum. No additional abnormalities are noted. Tumor and normal are submitted to tissue procurement. Block Summary: Al - Proximal en face mucosal margin A2-A3 - Distal en face mucosal margin A4 - Mesenteric vascular pedicle margin A5 - Lymph node present at mesenteric vascular pedicle margin, bisected A6-A7 - Mass with extension into fat A8 - Mass with respect to tinea A9 - Additional section of mass with extension into fat A10 - One lymph node trisected All - One lymph node, trisected A12-A13 - Multiple lymph nodes, each cassette A14 - One lymph node bisected A15-A16 - Multiple lymph nodes each cassette A17-A19 - One lymph node each cassette, each sectioned Tissue remains in formalin. Addendum To add the results of immunostains Addendum Comment Immunostains for mismatch repair protein expression are performed onblock A8 and show normal expression of MLH1, PMS2, MSH2, and MSH6 within the tumor. Correlate with the results of microsatellite instability testing. ICriteria PDiagnosis Discrepancy HIPAA Discrepancy Prior malignancy History ousPrimaNoplll DualSynchro AUFIED  DISQi le Case is circI Isvewed: Reviewer InNIIi5 primary rumor Site Discrepancy
 SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT SPECIMEN A. Liver lesion B. Paraaortic lymph node C. Rectosigmoid colon CLINICAL NOTES CLINICAL HISTORY: Sigmoid colon cancer. FROZEN SECTION DIAGNOSIS A , left lobe, excision: Metastatic adenocarcinoma. 0 GROSS DESCRIPTION A. The specimen is received fresh for frozen section labeled A. Left liver lesion and consists of a tan 0.8 x 0.3 x 0. rubbery tissue, entirely frozen as frozen section in formalin labeled paraaortic lymph node is a 1.2 x 0.8 x 0.3 cm. rubbery tan pink tissue in keeping with lym de which is quadrisected and entirely submitted in one block. - . Received fresh for tissue for permanent labeled rectosigmoid colon is a previously unopened, 22 cm. segment of distal colon, surfaced by smooth glistening tan- pink serosa and scabrous adventitia, with an abundant amount of attached mesocolon. The specimen is oriented by anatomic landmarks and both proximal and distal margins average 8.5 cm. in circumference. On opening, there is a circumferential, 7.8 x 4.6 cm. centrally necrotic rubbery, tan- red tumor mass, with raised rolled edges located 5.5 cm. from the distal margin. A portion of tumor and a portion of normal mucosa are submitted for tissue procurement as requested. On sectioning, the tumor extends into the muscularis to within 0.2 cm. of the inked free radial serosal surface see blocks 3 and 4. The tumor is greater than 5 cm. from the adventitial resection margins represented in block 2. The mucosa throughout the remainder of the specimen is focally tattooed tan- pink to gray- black, with regular folds in the wall averages 6.0 cm. in thickness. No additional mass lesion or abnormality is identified grossly.  soft to slightly rubbery tan-p ink to gray- black tissues in keeping with lymph nodes measuring up to 1.2 cm. are recovered from the attached mesocolon. R r entative sections are submitted in fifteen blocks as labeled. - BLOCK SUMMARY: 1 - Proximal and distal margins proximal inked blue; 2 - adventitial surface adjacent to tumor inked green; 3-5 - tumor full thickness to inked free radial serosal surface; 6 - tumor to normal mucosa; 7 - random from remainder of specimen; 8- 11 - nine 9 whole lymph nodes assette; 12- 15 - one bisected lymph node per cassette. s MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION A, B, C. Microscopic examination of the rectosigmoid resection, as well as the liver lesion and para- aortic lymph node biopsy reveals - Histologic type: Adenocarcinoma Histologic grade: Moderately to poorly differentiated Primary tumor pT: Tumor invades through muscularis propria into subserosa pT3 Proximal margin: Negative for tumor Distal margin: Negative for tumor Circumferential radial margin: Negative for tumor Distance of tumor from closest margin: 5.5 cm from the distal margin and greater than 5 cm from adventitialradial margin Vascular invasion: Lymphatic space invasion is identified and is prominent in blocks C4 and C5. No large vessel invasion is identified. Regional lymph nodes pN: Metastatic adenocarcinoma is identified in 1 of 37 lymph nodes and measures 2 mm in greatest dimension in slide C15. pN1a. Non- lymph node pericolonic tumor: Not identified. Distant metastasis pM: In liver biopsy in specimen A pM1a. Other findings: The para- aortic lymph node is negative for malignancy in specimen B. The background colonic mucosa appears unremarkable. 4x1, 14x1, 3x1, 5x1 DIAGNOSIS A. Liver lesion, incisional biopsy: Metastatic adenocarcinoma of colonic type consistent with origin from rectosigmoid tumor. B. Para- aortic lymph node, excisional biopsy: Single lymph node negative for metastatic tumor 01. C. Colon, rectosigmoid, segmental resection: Adenocarcinoma, moderately to poorly differentiated, invasive through muscularis propria into subserosal tissue pT3 Metastatic adenocarcinoma present in 1 of 37 lymph nodes pN1a. Lymphatic space invasion present. Resection margins are negative for tumor. See microscopic description for template details. --- End Of Report --- 
Formatted Path Report LARGE INTESTINE TISSUE CHECKLIST Specimen type: Colectomy Specimen size: Not specifiedTumor site: Sigmoid colonTumor size: 5.2 x 2.2 cmTumor features: Infiltrative, UlceratedHistologic type: Mucinous adenocarcinomaHistologic grade: Poorly differentiatedTumor extent: SubserosaLymph nodes: 1318 positive for metastasis Pericolonic 1318Margins: UninvolvedEvidence of neo-adjuvant treatment: Not specifiedAdditional pathologic findings: Not specified Comments: None Date of Procurement
iurgical Pathology: UUID:DCBDBBD7-E409-4ESF-AF2B-9SF4D01C7DSC TCGA-QG-A5YV-01A-PRRedacted III IIIIIIIIIII111111IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIlIOIIIIIIII111111III111111111111III11111111111111!IIiIIIIIIIIIIII111111111111111 III II I  I UIV II!IIIIII I III  IIII  IIIiI  II I II III III SURGICAL PATHOLOGY Accession : ADDENDUMILC CtLrctviav  ar5iQ ir7 cL its -tjI4..L5 l E?lLFLi ecsooz, --V15 5 14 i4. jr 1,7tmotcl l Addendum Comment The purpose of this addendum is to report results following deeper levels and an immunohistochemistry stain for Pancytokeratin on a lymph node in section G35 due to a small fibrotic focus seen on the routinely stained slide. No metastatic carcinoma is seen in the additional deeper levels of the lymph node in section G35 .An immunohistochemistry stain for Pancytokeratin is negative ;the control is appropriate .The diagnoses remain unchanged. This immunohistochemistry tests was developed and its performance characteristics determined by the Immunohistochemistry Laboratory andor affiliated institution. It has not been cleared or approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration .The FDA has determined that such clearance or approval is not necessary .This test is used for clinical purposes. It should not be regarded as investigational or for research .This laboratory is certified under the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments of 1988 CLIA as qualified to perform high complexity clinical laboratory testing. End of Addendum Report or Additional Results Staff Pathologist PATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS A. SOFT TISSUE, LEFT ABDOMINAL WALL, EXCISIONAL BIOPSY: -NO ADENOCARCINOMA FOUND -EXTENSIVE FIBROSIS WITH CHRONIC INFLAMMATION INVOLVINGLOBULES OF ADIPOSE TISSUE COMPATIBLE WITH SCAR B. URINARY BLADDER, LEFT MUCOSAL MARGIN, EXCISION: -NO ADENOCARCINOMA FOUND -UROTHELIAL MUCOSA WITH EDEMA, FOCAL HEMORRHAGE AND CHRONIC INFLAMMATION C. URINARY BLADDER, POSTERIOR MUCOSA, EXCISION: -NO ADENOCARCINOMA FOUND -UROTHELIAL-TYPE MUCOSA WITH EDEMA, CHRONIC INFLAMMATION AND HEMORRHAGE D. URINARY BLADDER, RIGHT MARGIN AND MUCOSA, EXCISION: -NO ADENOCARCINOMA FOUND -UROTHELIAL-TYPE MUCOSA WITH EDEMA, CHRONIC INFLAMMATION AND FOCAL HEMORRHAGE E. URINARY BLADDER, POSTERIOR MUSCLE MARGIN, EXCISION: -NO ADENOCARCINOMA SEEN -SMOOTH MUSCLE FIBERS WITHIN AN EDEMATOUS, INFLAMED STROMA, COMPATIBLE WITH BLADDER WALL F. SOFT TISSUE, UMBILICAL REGION, HERNIORRHAPHY: -NO ADENOCARCINOMA SEEN -COMPATIBLE WITH HERNIA SAC G. SIGMOID COLON AND URINARY BLADDER, PARTIAL CYSTECTOMY AND SIGMOIDECTOMY EN BLOC RESECTION OF DOME OF UNINARY BLADDER AND POSTERIOR ABDOMINAL WALL: -ADENOCARCIOMA, MODERATELY DIFFERENTIATED, ARISING IN A TUBULOVILLOUS ADENOMA -SPECIMEN LENGTH: 31.0 CM -TUMOR SITE: SIGMOID COLON -TUMOR SIZE: GREATEST DIMENSION: 9.5 CM -ADDITIONAL DIMENSIONS: 7.0 X 6.0 CM -MACROSCOPIC TUMOR PERFORATION: CANNOT BE DETERMINED -MICROSCOPIC TUMOR PERFORATION: PRESENT -HISTOLOGIC GRADE: LOW-GRADE -MICROSCOPIC TUMOR EXTENSION: TUMOR PENETRATES TO THE SURFACE OF THE VISCERAL PERITONEUM SEROSA AND DIRECTLY INVADES ADJACENT STRUCTURES URINARY BLADDER -MARGINS: DISTAL AND PROXIMAL MARGINS NEGATIVE - TREATMENT EFFECT: NO PRIOR TREATMENT -LYMPHOVASCULAR INVASION: NOT IDENTIFIED -PERINEURAL INVASION: NOT IDENTIFIED -TUMOR DEPOSITS DISCONTINUOUS EXTRAMURAL EXTENSION: NOT IDENTIFIED-METASTATIC ADENOCARCINOMA FOUND IN ONE OF THIRTY-ONE LYMPH NODES 131 -ADDITIONAL FINDINGS: -EXTENSIVE SEROSITIS, INCLUDING RESECTION MARGINS - INTRAMURAL ABSCESS -HEMORRHAGIC CYSTITIS -TUBULOVILLOUS ADENOMATOUS CHANGE -ANCILLARY STUDIES: NEGATIVE FOR MICROSATELLITE INSTABILITY SEE PREVIOUS SURGICAL REPORT H. SIGMOID COLON, NEW PROXIMAL MARGIN, EXCISION: -NEGATIVE FOR ADENOCARCINOMA 1.SIGMOID COLON, NEW DISTAL MARGIN, EXCISION: -NEGATIVE FOR ADENOCARCINOMA -ACUTE SEROSITIS J.LYMPH NODE, SITE NOT SPECIFIED, REGIONAL DISSECTION: -TWO LYMPH NODES IDENTIFIED, BOTH NEGATIVE FOR METASTATIC ADENOCARCINOMA 02 PATHOLOGIC STAGING pTNM: -PRIMARY TUMOR pT: pT4b, TUMOR DIRECTLY INVADES OR IS ADHERENT TO OTHER ORGANS OR STRUCTURES -REGIONAL LYMPH NODES pN: pNla, METASTASIS IN ONE REGIONAL LYMPH NODE SEE COMMENT NUMBER EXAMINED: THIRTY-THREE 33 NUMBER INVOLVED: ONE 1 -DISTANT METASTASIS: NOT APPLICABLE Staff Pathologist Comment Part G: A lymph node in section G35 contains a small suspicious fibrotic focus underlying the subcapsular sinus. Additional deeper levels are pending as well as a Pancytokeratin immunohistochcrmstry stain. These results will be issued in an addendum report. Intraoperativc Consultation Intraoperative Frozen Section Diagnosis F SA 1-2: Soft tissue. left abdominal wall, excisional biopsy:-Scarring and inflammation -No metastatic carcinoma seen -The diagnosis was verbally reported to FSB: Urinary bladder, leftmucosal margin, excision: -No malignancy seen FSC: Urinary bladder ,posterior mucosa, excision: -No malignancy seen FSD: Urinary bladder, right mucosa margin, excision: -No malignancy seen FSE: Urinary bladder, posterior muscle margin, excision: -No malignancy seen verbally notified of the diagnosis at Staff Pathologist Pathology Resident Pertinent Clinical Information Possible abdominal wall involvement by signnoid colon carcinoma. Gross Description Specimen Material: A- Left abdominal wall, B- Left bladder mucosa margin, C- Posterior bladder mucosa, D- Right bladder margin bladder mucosa, E- Posterior bladder muscle margin, F- Hernia sac, G- Sigmoid colon and partial bladder, H- New proximal margin sigmoid, I- New distal margin sigmoid, J- Additional lymph node. The case is received in ten parts, each labeled with the patients name medical record number and given accession number and it is accompanied by a requisition form labeled with the same name and accession number. Part A: Received fresh for intraoperative consultation labeled RULE OUT TUMOR LEFT ABDOMINAL WALL is a 2.5 x 2.0 x 0.7 cm tan-pink ,irregular, soft piece of tissue which is bisected to reveal a tan-white, homogeneous area grossly compatible with either fibrous tissue or tumoral implant. Touch preparations are performed and the entire specimen is submitted for frozen section in cassettes FSA 1and FSA2. Part B: Received fresh for intraoperative consultation labeled BLADDER LEFT MARGIN, BLADDER MUCOSA is a 2.0 x 0.7 x 0.5 cm tan-pink to red, irregular piece of soft tissue which is entirely submitted for frozensection in cassette FSB. Part C: Received fresh for intraoperative consultation labeled BLADDER POSTERIOR, BLADDER MUCOSA is a 2.0 x 0.7 x 0.5 cm tan-pink to red, irregular soft piece of tissue which is entirely submitted for frozen section in cassette FSC. Part D: Received fresh for intraoperative consultation labeled BLADDER RIGHT MARGIN, BLADDER MUCOSA is a 2.2 x 0.5 x 0.3 cm tan-pink to red, irregular soft piece of tissue which is entirely submitted for frozen section in cassette FSD. Part E :Received fresh for intraoperative consultation labeled BLADDER MUSCLE MARGIN, FROZEN SECTION and consists of a 2.0 x T.1 x 0.3 cm tan-pinkto red ,irregular piece of soft tissue which is entirely submitted for frozen section in cassette FSE. Pathology Resident Part F: Received in formalin labeled HERNIA SAC  is a 6.0 x 6.0 x 3.5 cm tan-yellow ,lobulated portion of adipose tissue with an attached fibrous membrane focally adherent to fat .The specimen is serially sectioned to reveal tan-yellow ,lobulated and glistening adipose tissue with no grossly identifiable lesions. One representative section is submitted in cassette F. Part G: Received in formalin labeled SIGMOID COLON AND PARTIAL BLADDER is a 31.0 cm in length and a diameter ranging from 5 .0 to 6.5 cm segment of colon marked with a stitch indicating the proximal end, as oriented by the surgeon ,with an attached 11.0 x 10.5 x 8.0 cm firm, round mass, displaying a 5.0 x 4.5 cm ovoid ,hemorrhagic ,irregular area most likely compatible with bladder mucosal resection margin previously sent for frozen located towards the distal colonic end. The specimen has an attached 28.0 x 19.0 x 1.5 cm portion of mesenteric fat. The colonic serosa is tan-gray and granular adjacent to the bladder attachment site. Additionally there are multiple inconspicuous, thin, irregular foci of possible fibrin deposition disseminated all over the specimen. The mass has minimally attached adipose tissue with focal tan-gray granular areas of possible fibrin deposition. There is a 9.5 x 6.0 cm tan-pink, focally friable, exophytic tumor involving the colonic mucosa circumferentially with focal areas of superficial necrosis and hemorrhage, located at 3.5 cm from the distal resection margin and at 15.0 cm from the proximal resection margin. A perpendicular section through the mass reveals continuity with the circumferential colonic massextending through a thick muscular wall, having up to 1.9 cm in thickness. This wall likely represents urinary bladder wall. The bulk mass of tumor present outside the colon measures 9.5 x 7.0 x 6.0 cm. The mass is grossly extending through the entire colonic wall thickness minimally penetrating grossly into the pericolonic adipose tissue, at 0.5 cm from the serosal lining. The tumor infiltrates the muscular wall, at 1.5 cm from the bladder mucosal margin and at 0.4 cm from the outer bladder wall surface purple ink towards the proximal colon end. Blue previous bladder resection site Purple external mass Black mesenteric serosa at the closest point of invasion Section Code: G 1: distal resection margin, en face G2-3: proximal resection margin, en face G4-6: suspicious area of extension at superior aspect of mass adjacent to colon proximally G7: deepest area of invasion into the mesenteric fat G8: tumor invading the pericolonic adipose tissue G9: tumor with adjacent uninvolved mucosa at the distal end with underlying soft tissue abscess G 10: possible lymph node G 11-G 16: representative sections of the previous bladder resection margin perpendicular sections grossly uninvolved G17-G20: representative sections of tumor at the colonic location G21-G22: colonic mucosa adjacent to tumor toward the proximal end G23-G25: tumor in relation to the bladder wall G26-G27: multiple whole possible lymph nodes G28-G29: one serially sectioned possible lymph node G30: one bisected lymph node G31: multiple whole possible lymph nodes G32: multiple whole possible lymph nodes G33: one bisected lymph node G34: multiple whole possible lymph nodes G35: one bisected lymph node G36: multiple whole possible lymph nodes G37: one trisected lymph node G38: one possible bisected lymph node G39: multiple whole possible lymph nodes G40-41: transition of tumor to bladder mucosa orange ink towards the bladder G42-51: bladder mucosa posterior portion towards the distal aspect of the colon G52-62: anterior aspect of the bladder mucosa concluding submission of the bladder mucosa in its entirety G63-G68: bladder wall in relation with tumor and possible skeletal muscle 369: tumor orange indicates colonic luminal aspectG70-G73: tumor G74: one bisected lymph node G75: one bisected lymph node G76: three possible whole lymph nodes Part H :Received in formalin labeledNEW PROXIMAL MARGIN SIGMOID is a 5.0 x 0.8 x 0.7 cm portion of stapled fibroadipose tissue partially surfaced by mucosa ,compatible with colonic origin .The staple line is removed and the remainder of the specimen is entirely submitted in a single cassette. Part 1: Received in formalin labeledNEW DISTAL MARGIN SIGMOID is a 3.1x 0.7 x 0.7 cm stapled fragment of colonic mucosa .The staple line is removed and the remainder of the specimen is submitted in cassette I. Part J :Received in formalin labeled ADDITIONAL LYMPH NODE is a 1.2 x 0.8x 0.6 cm round ,ovoid portion of tissue which is bisected to reveal a 0.7 cm tan-gray lymph node .The specimen is entirely submitted in cassette J. Pathology Resident Pathology Resident Microscopic Description A-F: Performed. G: Sections show a moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma composed of highly irregular, tightly packed glandular structures with pleomorphic nuclei involved by extensive areas of necrosis, desmoplastic reaction and chronic inflammation. The tumor is surrounded by adenomatous colonic mucosa with tubulovillous architecture. The tumor seems to invade the sigmoid colon wall and penetrates into the muscular bladder wall extending close to the bladder mucosal urothelium, but without directly involving it. The bladder mucosa shows extensive hemorrhagic cystitis with subepithelial hemorrhage and congestion and extensive inflammatory infiltrate and edema within the mucosal lamina propria. There is extensive acute serositis involving the peritoneum with submesothelial polymorphonuclear cells. This acute inflammatory process involves the resection margins, as well. An area of intramural colonic abscess is identified near the distal aspect underlying the tumor. H-J: Performed. This case was reviewed by the staff pathologist listed below.Pathology Resident Electronically Signed Out Staff Pathologist  4 iscr p y -  t- , P yT or5 t f crepancy L 1H tPA 7ua!5;nchron nus Primary     Case is crtl: U D f DI54UALIt IfD
Specimens Submitted: I: SP: Right colectomy ............................................................ Page 2 of 3 I. The specimen is received fresh, labeled right colectomy and consists of a seent of terminal ilen i0 cm long x 4 cm dieter, cecum and ascending colon 23 cm long x 5 to 9 cm diseter, appendix 4.5 cm long x proxiaal margin shave distal margin shave Sunary of Sections: Part i: SP: Right colectomy Block Sect. Site PCs 3 C 3 i0 LN 20 3 M 3 3 MS 3 ............................................................ Pae 3 of 3  End Of Keport  
 ITCGA : Sample ID  This tumor is a poorly differentiated invasive adenocarcinoma in this case ,ascending carcinoma , G 3, with infiltration of the fatty connective tissue and lymph vessel invasions, L 1. The resection margins are free resection margins ,orally of the ileum type, distally of the colon type with corresponding three layers of mucosa ,submucosa and muscularis. The ligature consists of fatty connective tissue with vascular components. The lymph nodes are free lymph nodes , pNO 0 of 12. Tumor classification: 1CDO-DA-M 81403 G3 pT3, pNO, MX, L I u is RateIeA-0 3 S rCal-,tr 334 UUID:E8C798B9 -30E0-40B0-9383 -494BD6E7F29A TCGA-AA-Ae1Z-e1A-PR Redacted IIIIIIIII1IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII1111111 II III IIIIII I II IIII I IIIIIUIIII II IIIIIIIIIIIII II IIIIIIIIIIIII II IIIIIII IIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIOF IIIIIIIIIIIIII IIII DwlSync-narypnor MalinaCrkerh Diatnosis Ds c-.. Vnmary tomeDiscrepa Ii1PM Wsae- pn  clrchp nNw  1 DlSauugHi 0
Diagnosis: Resected colon sample sigma with tumor -free oral and aboral resection margins and including an ulcerated, moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma with infiltration of the lamina muscularis propria and without local lymph node metastases G2, pT2, L0, V0, R0 pN0 019.
 SPECIMENS: A. LEFT COLON SPECIMENS: A. LEFT COLON GROSS DESCRIPTION: A. LEFT COLON Received fresh is an unoriented, closed segment of colon measuring 28 cm in length. The external circumference is 8.2 cm. The serosa has numerous adhesions and a firm nodule measuring 11 x 8.5 x 6 cm. The serosa is inked black. The specimen is opened; there is an annular, indurated, ulcerated mass with serpentine borders measuring 10.7 x 8.5 x 6 cm. It is necrotic and extends through the muscular propria into the mesocolonic fat. It is located 8 and 10 cm from either surgical margin. 2.5 cm from the mass and 7.5 cm from the margin is a pedunculated polyp measuring 4.5 x 3.7 x 3 cm. It has superficial a depth of invasion. Extending from the sessile polyp to the margin are numerous polyps ranging from 0.1 to 0.3 cm. Multiple lymph nodes are identified. A portion of the mass is submitted for tissue procurement. Representative sections are submitted as follows: A1-A2: margins A3-A5: mass including deep margin A6-A7: m esocolonic fat and mass A8: mass and possible diverticula A9-A10: mass in relationship to normal-appearing mucosa A11-A14: mass extending into the mesocolonic fat A15: polyps A16-A17: section of pedunculated polyp en bloc A18: pedunculated polyp and stalk A19: pedunculated polyp A20: normal-appearing mucosa A21-A24: proximal 6 lymph nodes each A25-A27: proximal 4 lymph nodes each A28: proximal 1 matted lymph node A30-A38: distal 6 possible lymph nodes each A39-A40: distal 2 bisected lymph nodes each DIAGNO SIS: A. LEFT COLON, RESECTION: -MODERATELY DIFFERENTIATED ADENOCARCINOMA OF COLON, INFILTRATING THROUGH MUSCULARIS PROPRIA INTO SUBSEROSA WITH PERINEURAL INVASION. - EXTENSIVE INTRAMURAL SUPPURATIVE NECROSIS -TUBULOVILLOUS ADENOMA WITH FOCAL HIGH GRADE DYSPLASIA -HYPERPLASTIC POLYPSMULTIPLE -MARGINS NEGATIVE -METASTATIC ADENOCARCINOMA IN ONE OF EIGHTY TWO LYMPH NODES 182 -SEE SYNOPTIC REPORT SYNOPTIC REPORT - COLON  RECTUM Specimens Involved Specimens: A: LEFT COLON Specimen Type: Left hemico lectomy Tumor Site: Left descending colon Tumor Configuration: Exophytic polypoid Ulcerating Tumor size: 10.7cm Additional dimensions 8.5cm x 6cm WHO Classification Adenocarcinoma 81403 Histologic Grade: G2: Moderately differentiated Extent of Inv asion: Subserosa Margins: Margins uninvolved by invasive carcinoma Proximal, Distal, Radial Distance of invasive carcinoma from closest margin: 0.1cm VenousLymphatic Invasion: Absent Perineural Invasion: Present Additional Pathologic Findings: Adenoma HYPERPLASTIC POLYPS Extent of Resection: R0: Complete resection with grossly and microscopically negative margins Lymph Nodes: Positive 1  82 Extranodal extension: Absent Implants: Absent Pathological Staging pTNM: pT 3 N 1 M X CLINICAL HISTORY: None given PRE-OPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: Colon mass 
Diagnosis: Right hemicolectomy preparation with an ulcerated colon carcinoma characterized histologically as a poorly differentiated, partially mucinous adenocarcinoma of the colorectal type, located 0.5 cm aborally to Bauhins valve and encircling the int estinal wall at a length of 5 cm. Invasive spreading of the tumor within all intestinal wall layers up to the bordering mesocolic fatty tissue and the level of the subserosa. Oral and aboral resection margins are tumor -free. Three of nineteen lymph nodes display metastasis of the colon carcinoma, not extending across the capsules. Stage of tumor is therefore: pT3, pN1 319 L0 V0; G3 R0 
L ARGE INTESTINE TISSUE CHECKLIST Specimen type: Colectomy Specimen size: Not specifiedTumor site: Transverse colonTumor size: 2.5 x 4 x 3 cmTumor features: None specifiedHistologic type: Mucinous adenocarcinomaHistologic grade: Moderately differentiatedTumor extent: Pericolonic tissuesLymph nodes: Not specifiedMargins: Not specifiedEvidence of neo-adjuvant treatment: Not specifiedAdditional pathologic findings: Not specifiedComments: None
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT Clinical Diagnosis  History: Colon carcinoma hepatic flexure. specimens Submitted: 1: SP: Terminal ileum, cecum, asc;-nding colon; right hemicolectomy DIAGNOSIS: 1. SP: Terminal ileum, cecum, ascending colont right hemicolectomy: TUmor Type:  Mucinous adenocarcinoma Histologic Grade: Moderately differentiated Location: Ascending colon Size: Length is 6 em Width is 10 em Maximal thickness is 1 ern TUmor Budding: Absent Increased Tumor Infiltrating Lymphocytes: Absent Precursor Lesions: Not identified Deepest TUmor Invasion: Subserosal adipose tissue andor mesenteric fat Gross TUmor Perforation: Not identified Lymphovascular Invasion: Suspected Large Venous Invasion: Not Identified Perineural Invasion: Identified Surgical Margins: Free of tumor PolypSMucosa Dysplasia away from the carcinoma: Not Identified NonNeoplastic Bowel: Unremarkable  Continued on next page  ------------------------------------------------------------ Page 2 of 3 Appendix: Not identified eh Nodesl Number with metastasis; 3  Total number examined: 12 TUmor deposits in pericolorectal soft tissue: Identified r-orumor Staging AJCC 7th Edition;  pT3 TUmor invades through the muscularis propria into Griooloreotal tissues Lymph Node Stage AJCC 7th Edition: Nlb Metastasis in 2-3 regional lymph nodes I ATTEST THAT THE ABOVE DIAGNOSIS IS BASED UPON MY PERSONAL EXAMINATION OF THE SLIDES ANDOR OTHER MATERIAL I AND THAT I HAVE REVIEWED AND APPROVED THIS REPORT. 1. The specimen is received fresh .... labeled Right oolon and oonsists of a segment of terminal ileum. oecum, and asoending colon. The terminal ileum measures 5.5 cm in length and 4.5 em in circumference at the proximal resected margin. The remaining colon measures 17 in length with a circumference of 5.4 em at the distal resected margin. There is no attached appendix identified. Focally hemorrhagic lobulated yellow tan adipose tissue spans the length of the specimen measuring up to 1.1 cm in thickness. The speoimen is opened to reveal a friable polypoid mass lesion measuring 6.0 cm in length and 10.0 em in width. The mass is located in the ascending colon, 10.3 cm from the proximal margin and 5.0 cm from the distal margin. Sectioning shows the tumor invades the muscularis and abuts the underlying adipose tissue. The depth of invasion is 1.0 cm grossly. There is a 1.5 x 0.6 x 0.5 cm gelatinous filled cyst cavity identified in the tumor. The remaining mucosa is tan-brown with the normal folds. The ileocecal valve is grossly edematous. The attached adipose tissue is submitted for lymph node dissections. Representatitions of the specimen are submitted for permanent sections and forlllll Summary of sections: P proximal margin shave D -distal margin shave T -tumor C--cyst IC--ileocecal valve RS -representative sections  Continued on next page  --------..  ------ Page 3 of 3 LN -lymph nodes BLN -bisected lymph nodes Summary of Sections: Part 1: SPI Terminal ileum, cecum, ascending colon; right hemicolectomy Block Sect. Site pc. 1 C 1 2 DM 4 1 IC 2 6 LN 15 1 PM 2 1 as 2  T B . End of Report  
RUN DATE: RUN TIME: RUN USER: PATIENT:UUID:F7280EE2 -0A62-4DE5-8A20-1766FBB51F41 TCGA-NH-A5IV-01A -PR Redacted II I Il 11 l lil l 11 l l 11 11 11 11 l 11 11 l 11 l l l 1111 l 11 l 11 l l 111 l l li 1111 1111 11 111 IIIIIIIIIII IIIIll lIIlllllllllillllllllllllllllllllllllllll llll r I IIIIIIII I IIIIIIIIIIIIU II IIII I II II IIIlltilIli1111111 III III ACCTa: LOC: I --AUp: AGESX: ROOM: REGREG DR: DOB: BED: DIS: STATUS: MW TLOC: SPEC a:PERFORMED AT TIMEIN FORMALIN :6:25 hrs. CLINICAL INFORMATION: Pro-Op Diagnosis: Colon CA Remarks: Specimens: Right colectomy specimen RIGHT COLON AND PORTION OF TERMINAL ILEUM, RIGHT COLECTOMY: ADENOCARCINOMA OF TRANSVERSE COLON, LOW GRADE TUMOR MEASURES 9 CM AND INFILTRATES SUB SEROSA SURGICAL MARGINS FREE OF TUMOR NO TUMOR SEEN IN ANY OF 12 REGIONAL LYMPH NODES SEE COMMENT FOR SYNOPTIC REPORT COMMENTS CAP APPROVED SURGICAL PATHOLOGY CANCER CASE SUMMARY: SPECIMEN: PROCEDURE: TUMOR SITE: TUMOR SIZE: MACROSCOPIC TUMOR PERFORATION: HISTOLOGIC TYPE: HISTOLOGIC GRADE: MICROSCOPIC TUMOR EXTENSION: MARGINS: LYMPH-VASCULAR INVASION: PERINEURAL INVASION: TUMOR DPOS ITS: PATHOLOGIC STAGING:Terminal ileum ,cecum,ascending colon, transverse colon Right hemicolectomy Transverse colon Greatest dimension: 9 cm Not identified Adenocarcinoma Low-grade Tumor invades through the muscularis propria into the subserosal adipose tissue or the nonperitonealized pericolic or perirectal soft tissues ,but does not extend to the serosal surface Proximal margin :Uninvolved by invasive carcinoma Distal margin :Uninvolved by invasive carcinoma Circumferential or Mesenteric Margin :Uninvolved by invasive carcinoma Not identified Not identified Not identified Primary tumor: pT3 Regional lymphnodes: pNO Number of lymph nodes examined: 12 Numbers of lymph nodes involved: 0 xCONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE  eplan,ts ve.salb r, Coi42.3RUN DATE: RUN TIME: RUN USER:Specimen Innnirv SPEC : PATIENT:PAGE 2 iContinued GROSS DESCRIPTION: The specimen is received in the fresh state from the operating room for immediate gross evaluation for tumor banking and consists of a right colectomy specimen. The colon measures27 cm in length x 10 cm in circumference. Present in the distal portion of the colon is a fungating. red tumor which measures 9x 6 x 3 cm, located 6 cm from the distal margin and 3 cm from the radial margin. The terminal ileum measures 14 cm in length x 4 cm in circumference x 1 cm in wall thickness and appears unremarkable. The appendix appears to be surgically absent. A representative section of the tumor is removed by aseptic technique, and the tumor obstructs the lumen. infiltrates the subserosa but does not appear to penetrate the visceral peritoneum, The following sections are submitted: Block 1 -proximal margin Block 2 --distal margin Blocks 3-6 -colon tumor Blocks 7-9 -whole lymph nodes Block 10 --one lymph node trisected Block 11 -one lymph node bisected Block 12 -one lymph node trisected Regional adipose tissue resected with the specimen measures 30 x 4 x 2 cm, A relatively small number of lymph nodes is present. These are soft and measure up to 1 cm. INTRAOPERATIVE CONSULTATION: IMMEDIATE GROSS EVALUATION: ADENOCARCINOMA PRESENT IN COLON. PROCESSED FOR TUMOR BANKING Signed signature on file  END OF REPORT  ievwwer In a! owod:ase is Jar 1 QUl.UFI-  DIiQU l11a45ynchr .,ncs nma. rriur Malignancy tlist... yiIP.;A Discrepancy;aenosisDiscrepancy  J, rimary Turnoff Site l;iscrepsncy :r t ria N l 3 yes
Clinical Piagnoaia  Hiotory: Obtructing transverse colon mass with biopsy consistent with adenocarcinoma. Specimens Submitted: 1 r COLON, TRANSVERSE! RES:r:CTlON DlAONDSlS1 1. COLOU, lAANSVERSR; RESECTION: -TuMOR TYPE1 MUCINOUS COLLOID ADNOCINOHA GREATER THMl SO UOCINOUS COMlONEtrr. CM. HISTOLOGIC GRbDEa MODERATELY DIFFERENTIATED. -TtJl.IOR LOCATION! TRANSVERSE COLON. lMOR SUE 1 LENGTH IS 4, 5 CM; WIDTH IS 7 CM, WI.XIMAL THICKm:SS IS 2 GROSS CONFIGURATION! ULCERATING INFITRATI, -PREEXISTING POLYP AT THB SITE OF TifE CARCINOMA: IDENTIFIED, OF ADENOMA rtPE. TUMOR INVASION: INVASION INTO SUBSEROSA, GROSS TUMOR PERFORATION; hT lPSNTIFIEO, SEROSAL INIOINEMSNT: IDE.NTIfIEl  VASCuPhR lNVASIONr IDENTIFIED. -PERINEURAL lNVAS:i:ONt ltO;l IPEN:rIFIRU, SURGICAL MARGINS: FREE OF TOJI.OR. -POLYPS AWAY PROM THE CtRCIOMA 1 NOT IDENTIFIED. -NONvNEOPLASTIC BOWE1 UNREMARKABLE, -tHE l.ATIIOLOGIC STAGE IS pT4, -LYMPH NODES: NtJMBER WITH METASTASES: 1; NUMBER EXANINEO: 23. -THRBE MESENTERIC TUMOR DEPOSITS ARP. PRESENT. -THE PAJ?HOLOGX:C STAGE IS  1 plll, -INMmlOHISTOCHEMIC.lU STAIS FOR DNA MISMATCH REIlIR IROTRX:NS SHOW THA STAlNXNG :FOR MLHl, MSH2, USH6 AliD EMS2 IS PRESBNl IN THE TUMOR Some of the irrmunohiatochemistxy and ISH tests ware developed nd their performance characteriatics wll:re determined by the Department of Pathology. Thy have not been cleared or approved by tho US Food and Drug Administration. The FDA baa detemined that such olearance or approval is not necessary. These teats are used for olinidal purposes. Tbey should not be regarded as investigational or for reaearch. This laboratory is certified  Continued on next page  TCGA-CM-4748 ---------- Page 2 as qualified to perform high complexity clinical laboratory teBting. I ATT:f::ST lltAl TJlE ABOVE DlAGlOSIS IS BASED UPON MY PERSONAL EXAMlNATION 01 lHll: SLIDES AliDOR OtHER MATERihL, AliD TMl X HAW R.EVIEWED AND AP1?R0VED THlS REPORT. 1, The specimen ;ts recelved in formalin labeled transverse colon, stitch marks distal and consist: of a 23 em in length by a em in circllCtference portion of bowel with a stitch marking the distal rtd. The serosa is tan-brown and smooth with up to 17 em of attached yellow-tan, lobulated fibroadipose tissue, Opening of the colon reveals reveals a 4.5 em length by 7 em in diameter, tan-pink, lobular, focally mucoid, centrally ulcerated lesion. Sectioning reveals firm, mucinous cut surfaces with diffuse invasion through the serosa and into the underlying fat, The depth of invasion is up tQ 2 em, with a 1,5 x 1.5 em satellite tIJOOr focus in the attached fat, approximately 5 em away. The remaipder of the IIIUCosa i:: tanbrown and ormally rugated. h portion of the ::pecimen is sent for TPS. The specitnen ia sent for lymph node dissection and all identifiable lyrnph nodes are submitted, Representative sections are submitted. Summary of eectionat M proximal margin DM distal margin T tumor TI tumor with deepest invasion RS representative ections ot uninvolved mucosa LN ly.mph nodes BLN bisected lyrnph nodes ADD atellite tumor focus summary of sections: !?art l; COLON, TRANSVERSE; RESECTION Bloc;: 1 2  2 2 sect. Site PCB hOD DM UN PM RS 1 2 24 2 4  Continued on oet page  THE IMMONOHISTOCHMICAL STAINING FOR. THE lESIED DNJ MtSMATCH REPAnt PROTEinS MLHl, MSH2, MSHti AND PMS2 IS RETAINED IN WE TUMOR. -1 End of Report  
TCGA Missing Pathology Report FormV,tQfl..t10614 Instructions : The TCGA Missing Pathology Report Form should be completed for cases for which a pathology report is notavailable. UUID:83F2Ce5D-6A43-433C-A7BC-EC62F4B82E6D TCGA-G4-6317 -02A-PR Redacted III 11111111 111111  IIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIllIIi 11111111111111111III 11111111111111IIIIIIIII1111111111IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII I III 11111111111111 IIII II I I II II I II I I II II I I II I II I II II II I I I II II I II II I III IN Completed Date MMDD YYYY: - 7 General Pathology Report Information I IData Element Tumor type:Entry Alternatives Working Instructions Provide the tumor type of the case. i 2 3 4 SBCR specimen originally sent to: Date specimen received at BCR: ICD-0-3 Histology Code: For Specimen : CQCF For Case : patient diagnosis, if available elsewhereCH WGCIndicate to which BCR location the case was originally sent. Provide the date MMDD YYYY of shipment arrival at the Biospecimen Core Resource BCR. Provide the histology code for the sample from the Case Quality Control Form CQCF and the overall case patient diagnosis ,if different.CQ,GF I  cov 1Pu tr B M-0 Provide the site code for the sample from the Case QualityICD-O-3 Site Code: For Specimen : CQCF For Case:  patient diagnosis, if available elsewhere0-1 Control Form CQCF and d the overall case patient diagnosis, if different. I
 SPECIMENS: A. GALLBLADDER B. FALCIFORM C. LEFT LOBE LIVER SPECIMENS: A. GALLBLADDER B. FALCIFORM C. LEFT LOBE LIVER INTRAOPERATIVE CONSULTATION DIAGNOSIS: C. Left lobe liver: 1.1 cm nodule located 1.2 cm from closest margin. Called to GROSS DESCRIPTION: A. GALLBLADDER Received fresh in a single container labeled and designated gallbladder and consists of gallbladder measuring 7.0 x 3.0 x 1.0 cm. The external surface of the gallbladder is pink-tan and grossly looks unremarkable. Cystic duct remnant measures 0.4 cm in length x 0.5 cm in diameter. Gallbladder is opened to reveal large brown to yellow mucosa. A small amount of yellow bile is in the gallbladder lumen. No mass lesions or calculi are identified. Gallbladder wall measures up to 0.2 cm in thickness. Representative sections of gallbladder wall and cystic duct are submitted in cassette A1. B. FALCIFORM Received fresh in a single container labeled and designated falciform and consists of piece of yellow - red fibroadipose tissue measuring 11.5 x 10.0 x 1.3 cm and weighs 80 gm. The specimen is serially sectioned and examined. No mass lesions or lymph node candidates are identified. Representative sections are submitted in cassette B1 and B2. C. LEFT LOBE LIVER Received fresh in a single container labeled and designated left lobe liver and consists of partial hepatectomy specimen weighing 290 gm and measuring 15.0 x 14.5 x 6.5 cm. The liver external surface is dark red. The surgical margin is grossly free of lesions . It is inked in black. Specimen is serially sectioned to reveal nodular masslesion measuring 1.1 x 1.5 x 1.2 cm. The lesion is ill - circumscribed and white-tan in color. It is located 1.2 cm from the closest resection margin. The rest of the liver parenchyma is dark red and grossly looks unremarkable. Representative sections are submitted for code of sections. Code of sections: C1: lesion and closest resection margin C2: lesion C3: liver parenchyma, away from lesion DIAGNOSIS: A. GALLBLADDER, CHOLECYSTECTOMY: - GALLBLADDER WITHOUT PATHOLOGIC ALTERATION. B. SOFT TISSUE, FALCIFORM LIGAMENT, EXCISION: - BENIGN FIBROADIPOSE TISSUE C. LIVER, LEFT LOBE, PARTIAL HEPATECTOMY: - METASTATIC ADEN0CARCINOMA 1.5 CM CONSISTENT WITH COLONIC PRIMARY. - ADENOCARCINOMA 1.2 CM FROM THE RESECTION MARGIN. CLINICAL HISTORY: None given PRE-OPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: Liver metastasis 
UUID:B25D2818-B3C6-49F9-81E6.224488C1E926 TCGA-SM-AAT6 -e1A-PR Redacted iPi   GiGiiii  iiiMi i i i  Date: SPECIMEN: Terminal ileum, cecum ,appendix ,ascending and transverse colon PROCEDURE: Right hemicolectomy MACROSCOPY -Product of right hemicolectomy. -Segment of terminal ileum ,cecum ,segment of ascending colon and appendix. -The serosa is focally irregular, and displays multiple nodules in addition to a perforation 2.0 x 1.5 cm large ,which is continuous to an ulcerative ,vegetative luminal lesion measuring 8.0 x 8.0 cm, located 8.0 cm from the nearest surgical margin. -The lesion penetrates the colon wall to the serosa. - 11 lymph nodes were dissected from the pericolic fat; sizes ranging from 0.3 to 0.6 cm. MICROSCOPIC EXAMINATION -Moderately differentiated tubular adenocarcinoma of the ascending colon; -Microscopic tumor extension :invasion of pericolic soft tissues; -Perineural invasion: present; - Lymph -vascular invasion :present; -Moderate desmoplastic stromal reaction;  -Surgical margins free of neoplastic involvement ; -Number of lymph nodes examined: 11; -Number of lymph nodes involved: 10; -Stage :pT4cd, pN2 PATHOLOGISTS 6Vjal8;1, 0117 I Crkeria Yes INo Diagnosis Discrepancy Primary Tumor Site Discrepancy HIPAA Discrepancy Prior Malignancy History DualSynchronous Pri SOO Case is circle : ZCQUALIFIED DIS UALIFIED Reviewer Initials ate Reviewed:
Diagnosis: Right hemicolectomy preparation with tumor -free resection margins and including an ulcerated, poorly differentiated mucinous adenocarcinoma of the ascending colon, with infiltration of the perimuscular fatty tissue and without evidence of local lymph node metastasis G3, pT3, L0 V0 R0 pN0 017.
Diagnosis: Colon resection material 8 cm in length includes an extensively ulcerated, colorectal type of adenocarcinoma of almost circular growth extending 3 cm lengthwise and situated in the center of the preparation with infiltration of the pericolic fatty tissue and five regional lymph node metastases. No evidence of penetration of the overlying serosa. Tumor -free colon resection margins. Tumor stage: pT3 pN2 512 pM1 clinical liver metastases; G2, L1, V0, locally R0. 2.: Inflammation -free small in testine or Meckels diverticulum without evidence of tissue heterotopy. 
Diagnosis: Resected colon with a moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma of colorectal type measuring max 3.5cm with infiltration to the tunica muscularis propria. Tumor -free lymph nodes in this region. Tumor -free colonic resection margins. Tumor -free m esenteric resection margin. Tumor stage therefore pT2, pN0 021 pMX; G2, L0, V0, R0
Examination: Histopathological examination Examination No.: Patient: XXX PESEL: XXX Age. Gender: F Material: Unit in Material collected Clinical diagnosis: Examination performed Macroscopic description: A 27 cm length of large intestine with perilntestinal fat tissue sized 24 x 5 x 4 cm. Ulcerous tumour sized 1.8 x 1.5 x 0.7 cm in the mucosa. Microscopic description: Adenocarcinoma mucinosum Infdtratio carcinomatosa tunicae muscularis priopriae telae adiposae pericolicae. Incision lines free of neoplastic lesions. Lymphonodulltis reactiva NO XXII. Histopathological diagnosis  . .-;:  n d , d .-: ,:  Adenocarcinoma mucinosum cOIIiilrrC:;SIErf the colon. pT3, pNO CONTACT YOUR DOCTOR WITH THIS REPORTI 
0Sample ID  Diagnosis: Resected colon sample with an ulcerated, highly differentiated adenocarcinoma of the colorectal type with infiltration of the pericolic fatty tissue. Tumor-free local lymph nodes. Tumor-free colonic resection margins. Tumor-free mesenteric resection margin. In addition, a small tubular adenoma of the colonic mucous membrane with mild dysplasia synonymous: mild intraepithelial neoplasia. Stage of tumor: pT3 pNO 032 MX; G 1, LO, VO, RO C9 - 0-3 l C nro s 9,1,1013  D t -m 1 1 cao tl j u GgCG C   , At 311 111  UUID:A4C2CE68-97FC-4EA6-AAD0-75FOBOEC3AD2TCGA-AA-A004-01A-PR Redacted III IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII fill 111111111llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllfill l111111111111I I I I I I I I f II I liil i i i ii ii I lI l II l II I I lI lI Il I lI l I I ll l II III ae.eCaseisjdvv :Da, Synchronous PrimaryPrior Ma!i6mncy HistoryHIPAA Discrpancycrkcrb Di.gno:ls Discrepancy Primary TJmcr 5-le Discrepancy x11 E
L ARGE INTESTINE TISSUE CHECKLIST Specimen type: Hemicolectomy Specimen size: Not specifiedTumor site: ColonTumor size: 6.5 x 4.5 x 4 cmTumor features: None specifiedHistologic type: AdenocarcinomaHistologic grade: Well differentiatedTumor extent: Muscularis propriaLymph nodes: Not specifiedMargins: Not specifiedEvidence of neo-adjuvant treatment: Not specifiedAdditional pathologic findings: Not specifiedComments: None
I TCGA internal Sample ID: Diagnosis: The material presented is a left hemicolectomy specimen with a moderately differentiated, invasive adenocarcinoma of the colon, G 2, of the type of a mucous carcinoma, with permeation of all wall layers p T 3, free resection margins, free lymph nodes p N 0 and an additional tubular adenoma in the mucosal region. Comment: Other diverticulum formations were also detectable over the course of the intestine. 3 NoS S f-to 3 11 UUID:48C27265-38FC-4291-8CB8-B10F577B2FEB TCGA-AA-A024-01A-PR Redacted II I II II I III I II i t II it I II 111111 I I II I I II 11111 I II 11111 I I II lilt 111 I IIIII IIIIIII I IIIIIIIII IIII IIIIIIIIIIIII I II I IIIIIIIIII IIIIII I IIIIII illllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll vOiagnc,is n Primsry Tmw Sit it: D mPAA DoscrsWn - PrMe -tpua7rSVn s Prbnxy Uw Is rinkl:
Diagnosis: 2. Hemicolectomy preparation with a moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma of the colon ascendens with infiltration of the pericolic fatty tissue. Eight lymph node metastases in total 28 lymph nodes examined. Tumor classification: adenocarci noma G2 pT3 N2 8301 1 Though the text above says 28.  L0 V0 R0.
Diagnosis diagnoses Resected section of colon sigma with an ulcerated colon carcinoma histologically characterized as a poorly differentiated colorectal adenocarcinoma, extending within 0.5 cm of one resection margin, almost completely encircling the intestinal wall and measuring a max of 3 cm in diameter. Invasive tumor spread within all intestinal wall layers as far as the periproctic fatty tissue layer. Lymphangial branches in the tumor margin area. Oral and aboral resection margins are tumor -free. Four out of 24 mesocolic lymph nodes with extensive metastases of the colon carcinoma, partly transgressing the lymph node capsules. The remaining lymph nodes have uncharacteristically reactive lesions. Therefore the tumor stage is: pT3, pN2 424 L1, V0; G 3 
 SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT .... Clinical Diagnosis  History: History of synchronous stage IV colon cancer. Specimens Submitted: 1: Left colon, colectomy 2: Gallbladder 3: Hepatic artery lymph node DIAGNOSIS: 1. Left colon, colectomy: Tumor Type: Adenocarcinoma Histologic Grade: Moderately differentiated Tumor Location: Sigmoid colon Tumor Size: 5 x 2 x 0.4 cm Tumor Budding: Focal Increased Tumor Infiltrating Lymphocytes: Absent Precursor Lesions: Not identified Deepest Tumor Invasion: Serosal surface Gross Tumor Perforation: Not identified Lymphovascular Invasion: Not identified Large Venous Invasion: Not Identified Perineural Invasion: Not identified Surgical Margins: Free of tumor PolypsMucosa Dysplasia away from the carcinoma: Not Identified Non-Neoplastic Bowel: Unremarkable  Continued on next page  ------------------------------------------------------------ Page 2 of 4 Lymph Nodes: Number with metastasis: 0 Total number examined: 19 Tumor deposits in pericolorectal soft tissue: Identified Identified; number:1 Tumor Staging AJCC 7th Edition: pT4a Tumor penetrates to the surface of thevisceral peritoneum Lymph Node Stage AJCC 7th Edition: N1c Tumor deposits in the subserosa, mesentery, or nonperitonealized pericolic or perirectal tissues without regional nodal metastasis -------------------------------------------------------- 2. Gallbladder; cholecystectomy: - Mild chronic cholecytitis and cholelithiasis. 3. Hepatic artery lymph node; excision: - One benign lymph node 01. I ATTEST THAT THE ABOVE DIAGNOSIS IS BASED UPON MY PERSONAL EXAMINATION OF THE SLIDES ANDOR OTHER MATERIAL, AND THAT I HAVE REVIEWED AND APPROVED THIS REPORT. Special Studies: Result Special Stain Comment EVG Gross Description: 1.The specimen is received fresh and is labeled left colon, stitch marks proximal. It consists of a sigmoid colon that measures 20 CM in length and five CM in diameter. The serosal surface is focally puckered and wrapped by fat towards the distal aspect of the specimen. The radial serosal surface is inked black and the specimen is opened to reveal an ulcerated tumor measuring 5x2x0.4 cm causing slight constriction near the proximal end. Tumor is located 13 cm from the distal margin and 6 cm from the proximal margin. Serial sectioning reveals tumor invasion to a depth of 0.4 cm penetrating through the muscularis propria.. The remaining mucosa appears grossly unremarkable. Pericolic and peri-rectal adipose tissue is thoroughly examined for lymph nodes, and all possible nodes are submitted. Representative sections are submitted. TPS is submitted. Summary of sections: PM - proximal margin DM - distal margin T - Tumor  Continued on next page  ------------------------------------------------------------ Page 3 of 4 U - Uninvolved mucosa LN - lymph nodes 2 The specimen is received in formalin, labeled Gallbladder and consists of a variegated pink-tan to red purple gallbladder measuring 7.0 x 3.5 x 3.0 cm. The surface of the gallbladder is smooth and glistening with no apparent defects. It is opened to reveal 30 cc of green black bile, with a yellow black multi-lobulated friable gallstone attached to the mucosal surface. The remainder of the mucosa is yellow-green smooth and velvety. The wall thickness measures up to 0.2 cm. Representative sections including the cystic duct margin are submitted. Summary of sections: M - cystic duct margin U - undesignated 3 The specimen is received in formalin, labeled hepatic artery lymph node and consists of a pink-tan rubbery lymph node measuring 1.3 x 1.0 x 0.5 cm. The lymph node is bisected and entirely submitted. Summary of sections: BLN - lymph node Summary of Sections: Part 1: Left colon, colectomy Block Sect. Site PCs 1 dm 1 6 ln 16 1 pm 1 6 t 6 1 u 1 Part 2: Gallbladder Block Sect. Site PCs 1 M 1 1 U 4 Part 3: Hepatic artery lymph node Block Sect. Site PCs  Continued on next page  ------------------------------------------------------------ Page 4 of 4 1 BLN 2  End of Report  
Diagnosis diagnoses : Resected section of sigmoid colon with a colon carcinoma characterized histologically as a moderately differentiated colorectal adenocarcinoma, extending to within 8 cm of a resection margin and encircling the intestinal wall over a length of 7 cm. Invasive tumor spread to the muscularis propria. Oral and aboral resection margins are tumor -free. Twenty -two mesocolic lymph nodes are tumor -free and have uncharacteristically reactive lesions. Stage of tumor is therefore: pT2 pN0 022 L0 V0; G2 Follow -up report: As requested an examination was initiated in relation to the question over microsatellite instability of the colon tumor. According to the current consultation report see appendix there is no further evidence of the presence of significant tumor disposition, particularly of the HNPCC Lynch syndrome type. 
  fi--0-3 Nos ky03 r  Ccr ; S i arctcclr. Ga. 7 QUID:71808664 -22BA-4865-8719-CS4176F69ABF TCGA-DM-A1D8-01A-PR Redacted III IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 11111111111111 I IIII II II I I I II II II I I II I I II II I II II I I II I IIIIII 111111 IIIIIIIIIIIII I IIII111111111 IIII I IIIIIIIII I I II 1111111IIIi First Tumor Tumor Site : Sigmoid Distal Date of Cancer Sample Procurement: Histology : Adenocarcinoma Description of other histology: Grade : Moderately Differentiated Mucinous : r, No C YesCYes FocalC Unknown Signet Ring Feature : CoNo r Yesr Yes FocalC Unknown Histologic Heterogeneity : CNo C Yes C Unknown Host Response : Lymphoid Aggregates Crohn s like reaction r None r Yes r Unknown Plasma cell rich stroma CNo r Yes rUnknown Growth Pattern: Expansile C InvasiverExpansiler Unknownand Invasive Inflammatory Bowel Disease C: No r Yes C Unknown Angiolymphatic Invasion : Me; No C Yes C Unknown Mutator Phenotype : r No r Yes C Unknown Number of Slides 1 Garland Necrosis present : r No G YesC Yes FocalrUnknown TIL Cells  HPF 1.4 Pathologist Comment : No normal mucosa - only
Diagnosis  Diagnoses:  Right hemicolectomy specimen with tumor -free resection margins and under inclusion of an ulcerated, moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma of the ascending colon, exhibiting lymphatic vessel invasion, with infiltration of the perimuscular fatty tissue, and without regional lymph node metastases G2, pT3 pN0 018 L1 V0 R0.
Diagnosis This concerns an invasive, poorly differentiated colic adenocar cinoma with partial neuroendocrine differentiation G3, with penetration of all wall layers pT3, with vascular invasion L1, V1, with five lymph node metastases 5 of 15 and free resection margins as well as chronic appendicitis and free ligature area.
UUID:5319D80A-30FD-4834-A905-D34E668D4A2FTCGA-AY-A54L- 01A-PRRedacted Il l II II I III l li l l li ll I III l II it h II 11111 II111 I II I I III I I II IIII IIIII 1111IIIIIIIIIIIIII 11lillill I IIIIIIII I I I III 111111111111111 II 111III 111111IIIIIIIllIllilI1111111II IIIllIlllllI11111I1111111111111 Diagnosis: A: Colon, right, resection Tumor Histologic Type: Invasive colonic adenocarcinoma see comment Histologic Grade: Low grade, grade 2 of 4 moderately differentiated Tumor Size: 3.4 cm in diameter Tumor Location: Right colon Depth of Invasion: To junction between muscularis propria and subserosal soft tissues; no definite extension beyond muscularis propria identified SMA immunostain performed Lymphovascular Invasion: Not identified Perineural Invasion: Not identified Margins: Proximal margin: Negative, 16 cm away Distal margin: Negative, 8.1 cm away Mesenteric margin: Negative, 5.4 cm away Regional Lymph Nodes: Total number with metastases: 0 Total number examined: 24 IHC for Mismatch Repair Protein Expression: MLH1: Normal expression PMS2: Normal expression MSH2: Normal expression MSH6: Normal expressionAc-M 1 GdoP Clq,A Additional Pathologic Findings: Submucosal lipoma; Fibrous obliteration of distal appendiceal lumen; Separately submitted omentum with no involvement by carcinoma identified AJCC Pathologic TNM Stage: pT2 pNONote: This pathologic stage assessment is based on information available at the time of this report and is subject to change pending clinical review and additional information. Comment : Materials will be submitted to the for microsatellite instability testing. These results will be issued in a separate report. Clinical History: with colon cancer. Gross Description: Received is one appropriately labeled container, additionally labeled right colon and omentum. It consists of a 2.9 cm long x 1.6 cm in circumference terminal ileum contiguous with a 26.8 cm long x 6.0 cm in circumference large bowel with attached vermiform appendix 4.7 cm long x 0.5 cm in diameter, omentum 13.9 x 4.7 x 1.3 cm, and pericolonic fat extending the length of the specimen up to 3.6 cm thick. There is a 3.4 x 2.7 x 0.7 cm firm graytan mass with raised borders that is 16.7 cm from the proximal margin and 8.1 cm from the distal margin. The mass extends 0.3 cm into the muscularis propria but not through it, 0.6 cm from the serosa inked black, and 5.4 cm from the mesenteric margin inked red. Proximal to the mass by 7.7 cm is a 1.0 x 0.7 x 0.4 cm submucosal fatty nodule that is 7.3 cm from the ileocecal valve. The appendix is unremarkable. Also received in the same container is a 31.4 x 11.5 x 2.2 cm focally redbrownsegment of lobulated adipose tissue consistent with omental tissue. The pericolonic adipose tissue is dissected for lymph node candidates of which 21 are identified, ranging from 0.2 cm in greatest dimension up to 0.8 x 0.8 x 0.7 cm. The lymph nodes are firm and white. Tumor and normal are given to Block Summary: Al - proximal margin, en face A2 - distal margin, en face A3 - mesenteric margin, en face A4-A7 - mass,deepest extension A8 - submucosal fatty nodule A9 - appendix A10 - separate segment of omentum All-A13 - each contains five lymph node candidates A14-A16 - each contains two lymph node candidates ,bisected, one is inked black rtterim Jiaanesis Discrepancy rimary Tumor Site Discrepa, cy WPA Disc, c parse Pnor Maligrancy fiistbry Synchroi:ous Prima :mss! IS CI evie,iQUALIFIED ate Rev
TCGA-A6-2677 SPECIMEN Right colon tissure procurement CLINICAL NOTES GROSS DESCRIPTION Received fresh for tissue procurement labeled right colon11 3.4 em is a previously-unopened 30 em segment of proximal right colon with attached 21 em of distal ileum surfaced by smooth scabrous tan-pink serosa vlith a moderate amount of attached mesentery 1 mesocolon, and unremarkable omentum. An unremarkable ern appendix averaging 0.5 em in diameter is present. The proximal and distal margins measure 3 and 5.5 em in circumference, respectively. On opening, there is a well-circumscribed, 5 x 4.4 rubbery white-pink tumor mass involving and extending distal to the ileocecal valve. A portion is submitted for tissue procurement, as requested. On sectioning, the tumor is a maximal thickness of 0.6 em, grossly extending into the muscularis to within 0.1 em of the inked-free radial surface. The ileal and remaining colonic mucosa is unremarkable glistening tan-pink with regular folds and the v1alls 4 average 0.5 em in thickness. Multiple soft to slightly rubbery tan-pink to tan-white tissues, in keeping with lymph nodes, measuring up to 2.4 em in greatest dimension are recovered from the attached mesocolon and mesentery. The cut surfaces of the two largest lymph nodes are tan-white, in keeping with metastasis. Representative sections are submitted in 17 blocks, a labeled. RS-17. BLOCK SUMMARY: 1 -Proximal and distal margin, 2 -tumor full-thickness to closest inked-free radial serosal surface, 3 and -additional sections of tumor, including tumor to normal mucosa, 5 -tumor ICB1 6 -random ileum, 7 and 8 -random colon, 9 - appendix1 10 and 11 -eight whole lymph nodes per cassette, 12 and 13 -seven GROSS DESCRIPTION whole lymph nodes per cassette, 14 and 15 -one bisected lymph node per cassette, 16 and 17 -representative sections from two largest, grossly positive lymph nodes one lymph node represented per MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION Histologic type: Adenocarcinoma. Histologic grade: Moderately differentiated. Primary tumor pT : Primary tumor extends through muscularis propria pT3. Proximal margin: Uninvolved. Distal margin: Uninvolved. Circumferential radial margin: Uninvolved. Vascular invasion: Not identified. Regional lymph nodes pN : Metastatic adenocarcinoma is present in five of thirty lymph nodes, 530 pN2 . Non-lymph node pericolonic tumor: Not identified. Distant metastasis pM : Cannot be evaluated by the specimen pMX . Other findings: None. 5 DIAGNOSIS Right colon, resection: -Adenocarcinoma, moderately differentiated, depth of invasion through muscularis propria. -Surgical margins uninvolved. -Metastatic adenocarcinoma in five of thirty lymph nodes 530. DIAGNOSIS 
 Diagnosis  Diagnoses:  Right hemicolectomy specimen with an ulcerated colon carcinoma conforming to the histological type of a moderately differentiated, partially mucus -producing, colorectal adenocarcinoma, located 3.5 cm aborally from and almost circularly occupying the intestinal wall over a length of 4 cm. Invasive tumor spread within all layers of the intestinal wall and extending into the neighboring mesocolic fatty tissue. Appendix with apparent post- inflammatory fibrosis of the wall. Oral and aboral resection margins and large omentum tumor -free. Seven of twenty-six lymph nodes with metastases from the colon carcinoma that are restricted to the lymph nodes. Remaining lymph nodes with uncharacteristic reactive changes. Tumor stage thus: pT3 pN2 726, L0, V0; G2. Based on histological findings sent for information purposes Examination no. not clearly legible, findings of dermatopathological test laboratory, , there is a skin metastasis from an adenocarcinoma in a location that is not indicated. Based on the negative CK- 20 results for the tumor cells, this is apparently not a skin metastasis from a colorectal carcinoma, but a skin metastasis from a primary tumor located elsewhe re. 
Diagnosis diagnoses : Resected colon sample 10 cm in length with an ulcerated, moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma of the colorectal type, measuring a max of 3 cm in diameter, with widespread infiltration of the pericolic fatty tissue, circumscribed penetration of the overlying serosa, and four regional lymph node metastases. Tumor -free colon resection margins. In addition, two tubular adenomas with moderate dysplasia synonym: low -grade intraepithelial neoplasia. Tumor stage: pT4 pN2 415 pM1 cl inically liver metastases; G2, L0, V0, locally R0. 
locally R0, additionally a villous adenoma with focally severe dysplasia intraepithelial neoplasia of the hisk- risk type and a serrated adneoma and free lymph nodes pN0.
 SPECIMENS: A. RIGHT COLON SPECIMENS: A. RIGHT COLON INTRAOPERATIVE CONSULTATION DIAGNOSIS: A-right colon: Tumor is 11 cm from each margin proximal and distal called by GROSS DESCRIPTION: A. RIGHT COLON Received fresh is a closed segment of colon including terminal ileum, ileocecal valve, cecum, and colon measuring 25 cm in length. The serosa has an area of tattooing approximately 7 cm from the distal margin. The vermiform appendix is 7.1 cm in length and 0.5 cm in width; it is unremarkable. On opening the colon, the segment of terminal ileum is 6 cm in length and 4 cm in diameter; right colon is 19 cm in length and up to 10 cm in diameter. The colon contains a circumferential, polypoid, indurated, mass with serpentine borders measuring 6 x 4.3 cm extending through the muscularis propria. The mass is located 11 cm from the proximal and distal margins and 5 cm from ileocecal valve. There are 2 colonic polyps, 0.5 and 0.6 cm. Tissue is procured. Representative sections are submitted as follows: A1: proximal margin A2: distal margin A3-A8: mass in relationship with normal mucosal and deep margin A9: colonic polyps A10: normal-appearing mucosa including region of tattooing A11: appendix A12: proximal, 6 lymph nodes A13: proxim al, 2 lymph nodes A14-A15: proximal, 1 node each A16-A23: distal, 6 lymph nodes each A24-A25: distal, 3 lymph nodes each A26-A27: distal, 2 lymph nodes each A28-A33: distal, 1 lymph node each A34-A36: 7 possible lymph nodes each after O -Fix DIAGNOSIS: COLON, RIGHT, HEMICOLECTOMY: - INVASIVE ADENOCARCINOMA, MODERATELY DIFFERENTIATED, ARISING IN A TUBULOVILLOUS ADENOMA. - TUMOR MEASURES 6 CM. - TUMOR INVOLVES THE SUBSEROSAL FAT. - MARGINS, FREE OF TUMOR. - HYPERPLASTIC POLYPS 2. - APPENDIX, NO TUMOR SEEN. - METASTATIC CARCINOMA TO TWO OF 65 LYMPH NODES WITH FOCAL EXTRANODAL EXTENSION 265. SYNOPTIC REPORT - COLON  RECTUM Specimen Type: Right hemicolectomy Tumor Site: Hepatic flexure Tumor Configuration: Infiltrative Ulcerating Tumor size: 6cm WHO Classification Adenocarcinoma 81403 Histologic Grade: G2: Moderately differentiated Extent of Invasion: Subserosa Margins: Margins uninvolved by invasive carcinoma Proximal, Distal, Radial VenousLymphatic Invasion: Present Perineural I nvasion: Absent Additional Pathologic Findings: Adenoma Extent of Resection: R0: Complete resection with grossly and microscopically negative margins Lymph Nodes: Positive 2  65 Extranodal extension: Present Implants: Absent Pathological Staging pTNM: pT 3 N 1 M X CLINICAL HISTORY: None given PRE-OPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: Colon cancer 
 SPECIMEN A. Apical lymph node B. Extended right hemi- colectomy CLINICAL NOTES PRE- OP DIAGNOSIS: Colon cancer GROSS DESCRIPTION A. Received in formalin labeled apical lymph node is an 0.6 cm. in greatest dimension soft tan lymph node. It is bisected. AS- 1. B. Received fresh in a container labeled extended right hemi- colectomy is a previously unopened portion of bowel, consisting of 8 cm. of distal ileum with 25 cm. of contiguous right colon. The serosal surface is smooth to slightly scabrous tan-pink, with a moderate amount of attached omentum and mesenteric adipose tissue. There is an appendix present, 6.4 cm. long, and averaging 0.8 cm. in diameter. The appendix has a tan serosa, tan wall and mucosa, and is without focal lesion, and without gross evidence of inflammation. The bowel measures 3.6 cm. and 5.2 cm. in circumference at the proximal and distal resection margins respectively. The bowel is opened. There is a 4.5 x 4.2 cm. circumscribed rubbery tan- pink-red tumor 11 cm. from the distal margin. On cut surface, it is maximally 1 cm. thick and extends through the muscularis propria and into the surrounding adipose tissue. It is approximately 1.5 cm. from the outer surface of the specimen. Per the clinical request, tumor and normal mucosa are submitted for tissue procurement. The remainder of the mucosa is unremarkable and tan, with a normal pattern of folds, including in the ileum and the remainder of the colon. The wall of the ileum averages 0.4 cm. thick, and of the colon 0.5 cm. thick. The adipose tissue is dissected, and multiple soft tan lymph nodes measuring up to 0.9 cm. in greatest dimension are identified. RS-15, according to the accompanying block summary, following fixation. BLOCK SUMMARY: B1 - proximal and distal resection margins; B2- B6 - tumor, with B2  B3 together forming a composite full thickness section to outer surface of the specimen, with point of continuity between blocks inked orange; B7 - ICV; B8 - random colon; B9 - appendix; B10- B15 - lymph nodes, with multiple lymph nodes per block, except block B15 which contains one bisected lymph node. MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION The following template summarizes the findings in this case: Histologic type: Adenocarcinoma, comprising the mass lesion in the colon in part B. Histologic grade: Moderately to focally poorly differentiated. Primary tumor pT: pT3. Carcinoma invades through the full thickness of the bowel wall and into the surrounding soft tissue. Proximal margin: Negative Distal margin: Negative Circumferential radial margin: Negative Distance of tumor from closest margin: See gross description Vascular invasion: Not definitively identified Regional lymph nodes pN: pN1. There is one lymph node with metastatic carcinoma, with this lymph node identified in block B5, a section of the main tumor, with this lymph node in surrounding adipose tissue, with much of this lymph node replaced by tumor. All other lymph nodes are negative for tumor. Overall, in part B there is metastatic carcinoma in one of forty- two 142 lymph nodes. The separately submitted apical lymph node in part A is negative for tumor. Non- lymph node pericolonic tumor: Not identified Distant metastasis pM: pMX Other findings: The appendix is without specific diagnostic abnormalities. 3,5 DIAGNOSIS A. Lymph node, apical, excision - Negative for malignancy. B. Terminal ileum, appendix, and extended right colon, excision - Moderately to focally poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma of the colon, invading through the full thickness of the muscularis propria and into surrounding soft tissue see microscopic description. - Metastatic adenocarcinoma in one of forty- two 142 lymph nodes. - Margins negative for malignancy. - Appendix without specific diagnostic abnormalities. --- End Of Report --- 
Diagnosis: Colon resection material includes a moderately differentiated colorectal type of adenocarcinoma, max. 3.8 cm in size, with infiltration of the pericolic fatty tissue and focal evidence of carcinomatous lymphangiosis. Tumor -free regional lymph nodes. Tumor -free colon resection margins. Tumor -free mesenteric resection margin Tumor stage: pT3 pN0 024 pMX; G2 L1 V0 R0
 page 1  1 page 1  1 page 1  1 page 1  1 page 1  1 Department of Cancer Pathology Department of Cancer Pathology Department of Cancer Pathology Department of Cancer Pathology Department of Cancer Pathology Department of Cancer Pathology Department of Cancer Pathology Department of Cancer Pathology Department of Cancer Pathology Department of Cancer Pathology Department of Cancer Pathology Date: Date: Date: Date: ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon Internal invoice No.Internal invoice No.Internal invoice No.Internal invoice No. Cost of diagnosNc procedureCost of diagnosNc procedureCost of diagnosNc procedureCost of diagnosNc procedureCost of diagnosNc procedureCost of diagnosNc procedure ExaminaFon No.: ExaminaFon No.: PaNent: XXX PaNent: XXX PESEL: XXX PESEL: XXX PESEL: XXX PESEL: XXX Age: Gender : Gender : Gender : Gender : Gender : Material: Total organ resecFon  sigmoid colon Material: Total organ resecFon  sigmoid colon Material: Total organ resecFon  sigmoid colon Material: Total organ resecFon  sigmoid colon Material: Total organ resecFon  sigmoid colon Material: Total organ resecFon  sigmoid colon Material: Total organ resecFon  sigmoid colon Material: Total organ resecFon  sigmoid colon Material: Total organ resecFon  sigmoid colon Material: Total organ resecFon  sigmoid colon Material: Total organ resecFon  sigmoid colon Material: Total organ resecFon  sigmoid colon Unit in charge: Unit in charge: Unit in charge: Unit in charge: Unit in charge: Unit in charge: Unit in charge: Unit in charge: Unit in charge: Unit in charge: Unit in charge: Unit in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Material collected on: Material collected on: Material collected on: Material received Material received Material received Material received Material received Expected Nme of examinaNon: Expected Nme of examinaNon: Expected Nme of examinaNon: Expected Nme of examinaNon: Expected Nme of examinaNon: Expected Nme of examinaNon: Expected Nme of examinaNon: Expected Nme of examinaNon: Expected Nme of examinaNon: Expected Nme of examinaNon: Expected Nme of examinaNon: Expected Nme of examinaNon: Clinical diagnosis: Cancer of the sigmoid colon. Clinical diagnosis: Cancer of the sigmoid colon. Clinical diagnosis: Cancer of the sigmoid colon. Clinical diagnosis: Cancer of the sigmoid colon. Clinical diagnosis: Cancer of the sigmoid colon. Clinical diagnosis: Cancer of the sigmoid colon. Clinical diagnosis: Cancer of the sigmoid colon. Clinical diagnosis: Cancer of the sigmoid colon. Clinical diagnosis: Cancer of the sigmoid colon. Clinical diagnosis: Cancer of the sigmoid colon. Clinical diagnosis: Cancer of the sigmoid colon. Clinical diagnosis: Cancer of the sigmoid colon. ExaminaNon performed on:ExaminaNon performed on:ExaminaNon performed on:ExaminaNon performed on:ExaminaNon performed on:ExaminaNon performed on:ExaminaNon performed on:ExaminaNon performed on:ExaminaNon performed on: Macroscopic descripNon : A 18.2 cm length of large intesFne with a segment of the mesentery sized 20.0 x 9.0 x 2.0 cm. Ulcerous tumour sized 4.3 x 4.4 x 0.7 cm in the mucosa . The lesion surrounds 100 of the intesFne circumference and narrows its lumen; it is located 12 cm from the incision line and 3.9 cm from the opposite one. The wall injected with blue dye. Outside the tumour, there is a 2 cm polyp and diverFcula.Macroscopic descripNon : A 18.2 cm length of large intesFne with a segment of the mesentery sized 20.0 x 9.0 x 2.0 cm. Ulcerous tumour sized 4.3 x 4.4 x 0.7 cm in the mucosa . The lesion surrounds 100 of the intesFne circumference and narrows its lumen; it is located 12 cm from the incision line and 3.9 cm from the opposite one. The wall injected with blue dye. Outside the tumour, there is a 2 cm polyp and diverFcula.Macroscopic descripNon : A 18.2 cm length of large intesFne with a segment of the mesentery sized 20.0 x 9.0 x 2.0 cm. Ulcerous tumour sized 4.3 x 4.4 x 0.7 cm in the mucosa . The lesion surrounds 100 of the intesFne circumference and narrows its lumen; it is located 12 cm from the incision line and 3.9 cm from the opposite one. The wall injected with blue dye. Outside the tumour, there is a 2 cm polyp and diverFcula.Macroscopic descripNon : A 18.2 cm length of large intesFne with a segment of the mesentery sized 20.0 x 9.0 x 2.0 cm. Ulcerous tumour sized 4.3 x 4.4 x 0.7 cm in the mucosa . The lesion surrounds 100 of the intesFne circumference and narrows its lumen; it is located 12 cm from the incision line and 3.9 cm from the opposite one. The wall injected with blue dye. Outside the tumour, there is a 2 cm polyp and diverFcula.Macroscopic descripNon : A 18.2 cm length of large intesFne with a segment of the mesentery sized 20.0 x 9.0 x 2.0 cm. Ulcerous tumour sized 4.3 x 4.4 x 0.7 cm in the mucosa . The lesion surrounds 100 of the intesFne circumference and narrows its lumen; it is located 12 cm from the incision line and 3.9 cm from the opposite one. The wall injected with blue dye. Outside the tumour, there is a 2 cm polyp and diverFcula.Macroscopic descripNon : A 18.2 cm length of large intesFne with a segment of the mesentery sized 20.0 x 9.0 x 2.0 cm. Ulcerous tumour sized 4.3 x 4.4 x 0.7 cm in the mucosa . The lesion surrounds 100 of the intesFne circumference and narrows its lumen; it is located 12 cm from the incision line and 3.9 cm from the opposite one. The wall injected with blue dye. Outside the tumour, there is a 2 cm polyp and diverFcula.Macroscopic descripNon : A 18.2 cm length of large intesFne with a segment of the mesentery sized 20.0 x 9.0 x 2.0 cm. Ulcerous tumour sized 4.3 x 4.4 x 0.7 cm in the mucosa . The lesion surrounds 100 of the intesFne circumference and narrows its lumen; it is located 12 cm from the incision line and 3.9 cm from the opposite one. The wall injected with blue dye. Outside the tumour, there is a 2 cm polyp and diverFcula.Macroscopic descripNon : A 18.2 cm length of large intesFne with a segment of the mesentery sized 20.0 x 9.0 x 2.0 cm. Ulcerous tumour sized 4.3 x 4.4 x 0.7 cm in the mucosa . The lesion surrounds 100 of the intesFne circumference and narrows its lumen; it is located 12 cm from the incision line and 3.9 cm from the opposite one. The wall injected with blue dye. Outside the tumour, there is a 2 cm polyp and diverFcula.Macroscopic descripNon : A 18.2 cm length of large intesFne with a segment of the mesentery sized 20.0 x 9.0 x 2.0 cm. Ulcerous tumour sized 4.3 x 4.4 x 0.7 cm in the mucosa . The lesion surrounds 100 of the intesFne circumference and narrows its lumen; it is located 12 cm from the incision line and 3.9 cm from the opposite one. The wall injected with blue dye. Outside the tumour, there is a 2 cm polyp and diverFcula.Macroscopic descripNon : A 18.2 cm length of large intesFne with a segment of the mesentery sized 20.0 x 9.0 x 2.0 cm. Ulcerous tumour sized 4.3 x 4.4 x 0.7 cm in the mucosa . The lesion surrounds 100 of the intesFne circumference and narrows its lumen; it is located 12 cm from the incision line and 3.9 cm from the opposite one. The wall injected with blue dye. Outside the tumour, there is a 2 cm polyp and diverFcula.Macroscopic descripNon : A 18.2 cm length of large intesFne with a segment of the mesentery sized 20.0 x 9.0 x 2.0 cm. Ulcerous tumour sized 4.3 x 4.4 x 0.7 cm in the mucosa . The lesion surrounds 100 of the intesFne circumference and narrows its lumen; it is located 12 cm from the incision line and 3.9 cm from the opposite one. The wall injected with blue dye. Outside the tumour, there is a 2 cm polyp and diverFcula.Macroscopic descripNon : A 18.2 cm length of large intesFne with a segment of the mesentery sized 20.0 x 9.0 x 2.0 cm. Ulcerous tumour sized 4.3 x 4.4 x 0.7 cm in the mucosa . The lesion surrounds 100 of the intesFne circumference and narrows its lumen; it is located 12 cm from the incision line and 3.9 cm from the opposite one. The wall injected with blue dye. Outside the tumour, there is a 2 cm polyp and diverFcula. Microscopic descripNon : Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare G2. InltraFo carcinomatosa supercialis telae adiposae mesenterii. Incision lines free of neoplasFc lesions. O tumour: Adenoma tubulare cum dysplasa gradus mediocrr LG. DiverFcula et diverFculiFs  LymphonoduliFs reacFva No V.Microscopic descripNon : Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare G2. InltraFo carcinomatosa supercialis telae adiposae mesenterii. Incision lines free of neoplasFc lesions. O tumour: Adenoma tubulare cum dysplasa gradus mediocrr LG. DiverFcula et diverFculiFs  LymphonoduliFs reacFva No V.Microscopic descripNon : Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare G2. InltraFo carcinomatosa supercialis telae adiposae mesenterii. Incision lines free of neoplasFc lesions. O tumour: Adenoma tubulare cum dysplasa gradus mediocrr LG. DiverFcula et diverFculiFs  LymphonoduliFs reacFva No V.Microscopic descripNon : Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare G2. InltraFo carcinomatosa supercialis telae adiposae mesenterii. Incision lines free of neoplasFc lesions. O tumour: Adenoma tubulare cum dysplasa gradus mediocrr LG. DiverFcula et diverFculiFs  LymphonoduliFs reacFva No V.Microscopic descripNon : Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare G2. InltraFo carcinomatosa supercialis telae adiposae mesenterii. Incision lines free of neoplasFc lesions. O tumour: Adenoma tubulare cum dysplasa gradus mediocrr LG. DiverFcula et diverFculiFs  LymphonoduliFs reacFva No V.Microscopic descripNon : Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare G2. InltraFo carcinomatosa supercialis telae adiposae mesenterii. Incision lines free of neoplasFc lesions. O tumour: Adenoma tubulare cum dysplasa gradus mediocrr LG. DiverFcula et diverFculiFs  LymphonoduliFs reacFva No V.Microscopic descripNon : Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare G2. InltraFo carcinomatosa supercialis telae adiposae mesenterii. Incision lines free of neoplasFc lesions. O tumour: Adenoma tubulare cum dysplasa gradus mediocrr LG. DiverFcula et diverFculiFs  LymphonoduliFs reacFva No V.Microscopic descripNon : Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare G2. InltraFo carcinomatosa supercialis telae adiposae mesenterii. Incision lines free of neoplasFc lesions. O tumour: Adenoma tubulare cum dysplasa gradus mediocrr LG. DiverFcula et diverFculiFs  LymphonoduliFs reacFva No V.Microscopic descripNon : Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare G2. InltraFo carcinomatosa supercialis telae adiposae mesenterii. Incision lines free of neoplasFc lesions. O tumour: Adenoma tubulare cum dysplasa gradus mediocrr LG. DiverFcula et diverFculiFs  LymphonoduliFs reacFva No V.Microscopic descripNon : Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare G2. InltraFo carcinomatosa supercialis telae adiposae mesenterii. Incision lines free of neoplasFc lesions. O tumour: Adenoma tubulare cum dysplasa gradus mediocrr LG. DiverFcula et diverFculiFs  LymphonoduliFs reacFva No V.Microscopic descripNon : Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare G2. InltraFo carcinomatosa supercialis telae adiposae mesenterii. Incision lines free of neoplasFc lesions. O tumour: Adenoma tubulare cum dysplasa gradus mediocrr LG. DiverFcula et diverFculiFs  LymphonoduliFs reacFva No V.Microscopic descripNon : Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare G2. InltraFo carcinomatosa supercialis telae adiposae mesenterii. Incision lines free of neoplasFc lesions. O tumour: Adenoma tubulare cum dysplasa gradus mediocrr LG. DiverFcula et diverFculiFs  LymphonoduliFs reacFva No V. Compliance validated by: Compliance validated by: Compliance validated by: Compliance validated by: Compliance validated by: Compliance validated by: Compliance validated by: Histopathological Diagnosis: Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare coli. Tubulopapillar adenocarcinoma of the colon. G2, Dukes B, Astler-Coller B2, pT3, pNO. CONTACT YOUR DOCTOR WITH THIS REPORT! 
UUID:177EECE8 -D2CB-4CA4-81C5-949F14F793FA TCGA-A6-A565-01A-PRRedacted III II II I III I II I IIIII I IIIIIIII I IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII11111111111111111III IIIIIIIIIIII1111111IIII11II11111IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII III IIIIIIIIII I IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII I IIIIIIII I IIIIIIIIIII IIII IIII I III SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT SPECIMEN Transverse colon segment - silk tie at splenic flexure node CLINICAL NOTES PRE-OP DIAGNOSIS: Transverse colon cancer. HISTORY: Same.A ,liurC -IV1cA Cr 1110u G JvS of3 GROSS DESCRIPTION Received fresh labeled transverse colon segment is a previously unopened 50 cm. segment of colon with attached 2.5 cm. of distal ileum surfaced by smooth to focally retracted glistening tan pink serosa with a moderate amount of unremarkable omentum and an abundant amount of attached mesocolon. An unremarkable, 3.6 cm. in length, 0.3 cm. in diameter appendix is present. The proximal and distal margins measure 2.5 and 6.2 cm. in circumference respectively. On opening, there is a circumferential, 7.0 x 5.5 cm. glistening tan white-red tumor located 15 cm. from the distal margin. On sectioning, the tumor has a maximal thickness of 1.5 cm., grossly extending through the muscularis within 0.1 cm. of the inked free radial serosal surface and focally extending into the attached omentum. The remaining ileo and colonic mucosa is diffusely edematous tan pink with irregular folds and the walls average 0.5 cm. in thickness. A representative portion of tumor and a portion of normal colonic mucosa are submitted for tissue procurement as requested. A suture is present within the mesocolon designating the splenic flexure node as stated previously. The node is rubbery tan white and measures 1 cm. in greatest dimension. Multiple additional soft to slightly rubbery tan white-pink tissues in keeping with lymph nodes measuring up to 1.4 cm. in greatest dimension are recovered from the remainder of the mesocolon. The largest node is recovered subjacent to the tumor. Representative sections are submitted in 20 blocks as labeled. BLOCK SUMMARY: 1- Proximal margin including ICV; 2 - Distal margin; 3 through 6 - Tumor to inked free radial serosal surface and extending into the omentum; 7 - Tumor to normal mucosa; 8 and 9 - Random normal mucosa from remainder of colon; 10 - Appendix; 11 - Bisected node recovered from sutured area at splenic flexure; 12 and 13 - Grossly positive nodes subjacent to tumor not previously represented in prior sections; 14 through 16 - Eight whole lymph nodes per cassette; 17 - Five whole lymph nodes; 18 through 20 - One bisected node per cassette. MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION Histologic type: Mucinous signet ring cell carcinoma. Histologic grade: Poorly differentiated. Primary tumor pT: Tumor has invaded through the wall of the transverse colon into the omentum pT3d. Proximal margin: Negative. Distal margin: Negative. Circumferential radial margin: Negative. Vascular invasion: Present.Regional lymph nodes pN:Thirteen of forty-one mesenteric lymph nodes contain metastatic adenocarcinoma including the marked splenic flexure lymph node 1341 pN2. Non-lymph node pericolonic tumor :Present. Distant metastasis pM:Cannot be assessed pMX. Other findings :Appendix without significant histopathologic findings .The largest tumor metastasis is 1.6 cm., with extracapsular extension of tumor present in multiple lymph nodes. Adenomatous polyp. DIAGNOSIS Terminal ileum, appendix, right colon and transverse colon, resection: Invasive poorly differentiated mucinous signet ring cell adenocarcinoma, extending through the wall of the transverse colon, into the adjacent omentum. Proximal, distal and radial margins of resection are free of tumor. Thirteen of forty-one mesenteric lymph nodes contain metastatic adenocarcinoma including marked splenic flexure lymph node 13141. Appendix without significant histopathologic findings. Adenomatous polyp. Vascular invasion by tumor is present. --- End Of Report --- --- C: ite is r 1k0 -YesL INo 4 TTTDiagnasjs Discrepancy t;  Pnm,tyTumor .i;WDir,epancy HIPAA Disrrepanty Prior Maligranry Hist iy y DuaiSynchrorou ri nary ted   r  A Case is tirtlej : ;ALI. 1 I J AI,It Rerewtr ;sr;ti:l Date Revir v: ed: 1
TCGA  Internal Sample ID Diagnosis: The material in I is a partial resection of small intestine with reactive lesions, The material in 11 is a preparation of the rectosigmoid colon in clinical terms attributable to the rectum or the sigmoid colon with a poorly differentiated carcinoma in the area of the rectosigmoid junction G3, with infiltration of blood and lymph vessels L1, V 1 and a lymph node metastasis pN 1. Locally, the lesion was completely removed. The distance from the mesorectal fascia was at least 1 cm. The overall clinical findings and the topography should serve to determine whether this is a rectal carcinoma in the narrower sense of the term or a carcinoma of the sigmoid colon. GD-o -3 iLCl ,tia A YO S Q l G3 l7 L   Coi -  pi3a cc CF. 7 Ar 33ofi UUID:F260851E-e1SC-4FSE -8CB4-7DSSF391A418TCGA-AA-A02F-01A-PRRedacted III IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII III 0Lrtte, Lanasis Di:reDancy Primyyvmcr5ir Discrepancy Z-7A. rn Dnrr ep;rry Prior :urn gin .M.y n:lo, Dus:SyncSronous irima asc Imisl: Pe,
Diagnosis: I shows colon mucous membrane with parallel crypts and associated mucosa and submucosa. II shows a moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma colon carcinoma, G2 with penetration of all parietal layers pT3, and lymph vessel invasion. There are also lymph node metastases of the carcinoma described pN2. III shows free anastomosis rings. There was no evidence of any residual tumor in preparations I. and III., so that the resection margins were free in relation to this situation. Preliminary information is being compiled. Tumor classification : ICDO -DA-M 81403 G2 pT3, pN2, L1 
 Diagnosis  Diagnoses:  Right hemicolectomy specimen with an ulcerated colon carcinoma conforming to the histological type of a moderately differentiated colorectal adenocarcinoma, located 1 cm aborally from Bauhins valve and measuring 4 cm at its greatest diameter. Invasive spread of tumour into the outer layers of the muscularis propria. Oral and aboral resection margins and large omentum tumor -free. Twelve mesocolic and mesenteric tumor -free lymph nodes, with uncharacteristic reactive changes. Tumor stage is therefore pT2 pN0 112, L0, V0; G2, 
Diagnosis  Diagnoses:  Right hemicolectomy specimen with tumor -free resection margins, with two tubular colonic mucosal membrane adenomas with mild dysplasia synonym: low -grade intra - epithelial neoplasia and under inclusion of an ulcerated, moder ately differentiated adenocarcinoma of the ascending colon with infiltration of the perimuscular fatty tissue and without regional lymph node metastases G2, pT3 pN0 036 L1 V0 R0.
For Collection of Cancerous Tissue I personally infrmed thiS. that a specimens would be collected to be used for research purposes. I revIewed the RESEARCH SUBJECT INFORMATION AND CONSENT FORM with the patient and answered any questions the patient had. The patient then signed the consent forin as a free and voluntary act. A copy of this informed consent document will be retained at our institution. Name of Physician or Study Coordinator IClinicalInformationl Symptoms: Clinical Findings: Performance Scale Karnofsky Score: . . 0 o 100 Asymptomatic 0 80-90 Symptomatic but Fully Ambulatory ;60-70 SymptomatiC, III bed :ss than 50 Yo of day o 40-50 S m tomatic, in bed more than 50 of da , but not bed ridden 0 20-30 Bed RIdden Drug Dose Route Freauencv Date mmddywy   To    I To     To     To     To   Current Status TYPE t1IYES D NO Current Status TYPE YES D NO TYPE Relative Diagnosis D Negative D Positive:.   BIT Cell Markers: 2 Age of Diaqnosis D Negative D Positive:.   T Stage: tTreatment Information   A. .  .  I Size x,x em L Descri tion location of l m h Nodes  of l m h Nodes Palpable, Non-Dissected Lymph Nodes Dissected Lymph Nodes Distant Metastasis Or an Detailed location Size T .. .j. p:;;,fl;NEOADJUVENT:EHERA.PY!Chemo;Radlaiibi1;lii:iImiilo;:Honnbrial;or Molecular .. ,;: ; .  .. i. ; DruaTreatment Dose Route Freauency Date mmddyyyy  I To I I   To  I I  To I I I I To I I I I To  I 3 Pathology Form pecimen Information Collected by: Preserved by: BloodSerumlPlasma Normal Diseased Normal Time to LN2 Time to LN2 ,f min min  ,j.;;;r !;:1it::rfi ij,;;, PATHOLOGICAL:DESeRIPTIQN:r:;;;!;;A:; ,: . ;,, ,. f:;;X2!;:,;i  Primary Tumor Organ Size Extension of Tumor Distance to NAT IA xr-x 3 em  em lYmph Nodes Location  Examined  Metastasized Distant Metastasis Organ Detailed location Size Pathological Staging pT 3 N C Me Stage: Notes: 4 !Microscopic Description! Cell Distribution  Structural Pattern  Diffuse Y Streaming Mosaic .. Storiform Necrosis Fibrosis Lymphocytic Infiltration Palisading Vascular Invasion Cystic Degeneration Clusterized Bleeding Alveolar Formation Myxoid Chanqe Indian File PsammomaCalcification .........;,;.:;, . ... p .. , ::,;;;;:t.z::;.i,; CelJularDifferentlatiOB,;b,; it:  ,.;;0:::h;i1?;,0.;;:;. i.: : . : ;.:. Squamous  -Adenomatous  Sarcomatous  Lymphomatous  Squamoid Cell Glandular cell , Round Cell Laroe Cell Spindle Cell Cell Stratification Fibroblast Small Cell Keratin Secretion Osteoblast RS CelllRS Like Desmosome Intracvt. Vacuole Lipoblast Inflam. Cell Pearl Gland formation Myoblast Plasma Cell Cellular Differentiation: Well Moderate ;:2 Poor ;;,,::..:;:::;.,.:.,,:;;:,::;:1 ;;;::,i:;;; Nuclear Appearahcer;. .. .. ,, ;;f ,:jt; , ;, : . ,;. Nuclear Atypia: 0 I II III Aniso Nucleosis Hyperchromatism Nucleolar Prominent Multinucleated Giant Cell Mitotic Activity Nuclear Grade: Marker Result Value ER 0 Negative 0 Positive PR 0 Negative 0 Positive Her-2neu 0 Negative 0 Positive B-Cell Marker 0 Negative 0 Positive T-Cell Marker 0 Negative 0 Positive Other: 0 Negative 0 Positive Other: 0 Negative 0 Positive !Final Pathology Repol1 ;If t-J.1d.J2.if.J...a..Li.:..L  Grade:- Comments: Pathologist 5 Microscopic Appearance: DIAGNOSTIC PATHOLOGY FORM  1. HistoiD ical attern: Diffuse CELL DISTRIBUTION  Mosaic Stream in STRUCTURAL PATTERN Storifonn Clusterized Alveolar Fonnation Indian File 2. Celllliar featllres: Souamous  -Adenomatous  -Sarcomatous  -LYmphomatous SQuamoid Cell Glandular cell Ii? Round Cell LareeCell Spindle Cell Cell Stratification  fibroblast Small Cell Keratin Secretion !Y Osteoblast RS CelllRS Like Desmosome IntracYl Vacuole t Lipoblast Intlam. Cell Pearl Gland fonnation t Myoblast Plasma Cell OdJerwise Specified: Pj , Pv 7 tt:2 p  bam lJdJ.J   ?   2. Celllliar Differentiation: I Well Moderately Poor J. Nuclear Atypia: Nuclear Anocaran Aniso Nuclcosis Hvnerchromatism Nucleolar Prominent Multinucleated Giant Cell Mitotic Activity Nuclear Grade ,. BY CONTRIBUTOR -D REPORT OF RNDI,wUJ rNTECRA,r, 0 I II lY: pj C! 7Y iY , unJlOGlST STAFF FOR RESEARCH USE ONLY.  -  -  aD -t III 
Diagnosis: Right hemicolectomy preparation with a poorly differentiated adenosquamous carcinoma in the ascending colon of histopathological differentiation grade G3, with ulceration of the inner surface of the tumor, peritumorous chronic recurrent concomit ant inflammation, with carcinomatous lymphangitis, tumor infiltration in the parietal layers of the colon as far as the pericolic fatty connective tissue, with moderately chronic lymphadenitis of the tumor - free lymph nodes 012, chronic appendicitis and with tumor -free overview slices from the resection margins, from the region of the vessel ligature and from the adjoining omental fatty tissue. According to the sections examined, the tumor spreading from the colon carcinoma corresponds a tumor stage of pT 3, pN0, MX, L1, R0. 
RUN DATE: RUN TIME: RUN USER: PATIENT: REG DR : SPECII:PAGE 1 User: ACCT 1: AGESX; ROOM: REG: DOB: BED: DIS: STATUS: RECD: STATUS: COLL: TIME IN FORMALIN: 7:55 hrs. CLINICAL INFORMATION: Pro-Op Diagnosis :Colon cancer Remarks: Specimens: A.Retroperitoneal lymph node B.Transverse colonit1DS Sb 3 awualu ddIff q A. RETROPERITONEAL LYMPH NODE. EXCISION: Transverse colon Transverse colectomy Transverse colon Not identified Adenocarcinoma High-grade-METASTATIC ADENOCARCINOMA CONSISTENT WITH METASTATIC COLON CARCINOMA B.TRANSVERSE COLON, SEGMENTAL RESECTION: HIGH-GRADE ADENOCARCINOMA COMMENTSTUMOR MEASURES 4.5 CM IN GREATEST DIMENSION AND EXTENDS THROUGH THE COLON WALL INTO SUBSEROSAL FAT pT3 SURGICAL MARGINS OF RESECTION FREE OF TUMOR WITH CLOSEST MARGIN 2.5 CM RADIAL METASTATIC ADENOCARCINOMA IN 6 OF 12 SUBSEROSAL LYMPH NODES SEE COMMENT FOR SURGICAL PATHOLOGY CANCER CASE SUMMARY CHECK LIST CAP APPROVED SURGICAL PATHOLOGY CANCER CASE SUMMARY: COLON AND RECTUM I SPECIMEN: PROCEDURE: TUMOR SITE: MACROSCOPIC TUMOR PERFORATION: HISTOLOGIC TYPE: HISTOLOGIC GRADE: MICROSCOPIC TUMOR EXTENSION: MARGINS: TREATMENT EFFECT:CL4LA3 L UUID:163923CC- Afi5E-4FOF-93CC-D0CA33CSF35E TCGA-NH-A6GB-01A-PR Redacted IIIIiIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIUIIIIIIIIIIII11111111111111IIII I I II II 11111111 I II I II II II 1 I II II I I II I II I I II 1 II II 1 1 II I IIIII III 1111111111  II 111111111111 III  11111111111111 THE 11111III Tumor invades through the muscularis propria into the subserosal adipose tissue or the nonperitonealized pericolic or perirectal soft tissues but does not extend to the serosal surface Distance of invasive carcinoma from closest margin: 25 cm Proximal margin: Uninvolved by invasive carcinoma Distal margin: Uninvolved by invasive carcinoma Circumferential or mesenteric margin: Uninvolved by invasive carcinoma No prior treatment  CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE RUN DATE: RUN TIME: RUN USER: User: SPEC : PATIENT: COMMENT S Continued LYMPH-VASCULAR INVASION: Not identified PERINEURAL INVASION: Not identified PATHOLOGIC STAGING: Primary tumor: pT3 Regional lymph nodes: pN2b Number of lymph nodes examined: 13 Number of lymph nodes involved: 7 Distance metastasis: Not applicablePAGE 2 GROSS DESCRIPTION: A.Received fresh for frozen section labeled with the patient s name and retroperitoneal node is a 1.7 x 1.5 x 0,5 cm ovoid tan lymph node. On cross section, the node has a pale grayish-tan color and focally contains an area suspicious for a metastasis, A representative section is submitted in block Al for frozen section. A cytologic touch prep is prepared for Diff-Quik stain. The remainder of the tissue is submitted in block A2. B.Received fresh for tissue banking and labeled with the patient s name and transverse colon. Received is a 12. 5cm segment of large bowel, The large bowel is received with a 22.0 x 12.0 x 1.7 cm portion of yellow. lobulated, omental adipose. The attached omentum makes the specimen consistent with transverse colon. The segment of bowel is received unoriented between proximal and distal. There is a focal area of serosal puckering with creeping fat. The areais inked blue and the bowel is opened to have a centrally ulcerated. 4.5 x 4.0 cm tumor mass.The tumor massis nearly circumferential and has raised, rolled borders. The tumor comes to within 5 cm of one margin and 2.5 cm of the opposite margin .The tumor diffusely involves the bowel wall and focally extends through the bowel wall to superficially invade the underlying yellow adipose. The tumor focally appears to abut the inked serosa. There is 2.5 cm of yellow adipose between the tumor and the mesenteric fat resection margin. The surrounding mucosa is unremarkable with normal, tan folds. The fat is sectioned and scant, possible lymph nodes are identified. Representative sections are sampled as labeled: B1-B2 -margins B3 -perpendicular sections of nearest radial fat margin B4 -representative sections of omental adipose B5-B7 -representative sections of tumor to include areasof deepest invasion and tumor to serosa B8-B9 -whole lymph nodes B10 -one lymph node bisected MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION: The slides are examined and evaluated.  CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE RUN DATE: RUN TIME: RUN USER: SPEC b: PATIENT: INTRAOPERATIVE CONSULTATION: FROZEN SECTION: RETROPERITONEAL LYMPH NODE: --METASTATIC ADENOCARCINOMA CnMSISTENT WITH COLORECTAL PRIMARY -RESULTS GIVEN TO IN THE OPERATING ROOM AT Signed signature on file  END OF REPORT xPAGE 3 Continued Craria noss C:crenrncy rinrMa;t4nancy riituiV y f.Jl!1G r.JUSim atTen p15 QUALIFIE3 U E: ea0
 SPECIMENS: A. SIGMOID COLON B. PROXIMAL DONUT C. DISTAL DONUT SPECIMENS: A. SIGMOID COLON B. PROXIMAL DONUT C. DISTAL DONUT GROSS DESCRIPTION: A. SIGMOID COLON Received fresh for tissue procurement and labeled with the patients name and sigmoid colon is a closed, unoriented segment of colon measuring 13 cm in length with a diameter of 5 cm. There is an area of stricture measuring 1.2 cm, which is 4.5 cm from the nearest surgical margin. This region is inked black. The colon is opened and there is a fungating exophytic polypoid mass with serpentine border measuring 3.9 cm in length with a diameter of 3.0 cm. It appears to invade through the muscularis propria. It is located 3.5 cm from the nearest surgical margin and approximately 7.5 cm from the distant margin. The mucosa, extending from the mass to its nearest surgical margin, has a granular appearance. Sections of mass and normal appearing mucosa are submitted for tissue procurement. Normal mucosa is submitted for RNA study. Representative sections are submitted as follows: A1: margin closest to mass A2: margin distal to mass A3-A4: sections of mass and deep margin A5-A6: granular mucosa A7: normal- appearing mucosa A8-A9: six possible lymph nodes each distal to mass A10-A11: f our possible lymph nodes each in proximity to mass A12: two bisected lymph nodes adjacent to mass B. PROXIMAL DONUT Received in formalin and labeled with the patients name and proximal donut is a donut of pink -tan mucosal tissue measuring 3.2 x 2.4 x 0.6 cm. There is a blue suture throughout the specimen. It is bisected and the mucosa is unremarkable. Representative section is submitted in block B1. C. DISTAL DONUT Received in formalin and labeled with the patients name and distal donut is a donut of pink -tan mucosal tissue measuring 2.2 x 1.7 x 0.5 cm. The mucosal surface has pinpoint areas of hemorrhage. There are surgical staple present. Representative section is submitted in block C1. DIAGNOSIS: A. COLON, SIGMOID, SEGMENTAL RESECTION: - INVASIVE ADENOCARCINOMA, MODERATELY AND POORLY DIFFERENTIATED, SEE SYNOPSIS. - 3.9 CM IN GREATEST DIMENSION. - 3.0 X 1.2 CM IN ADDITIONAL DIMENSIONS. - INVADING INTO THE SUBSEROSA. - THE PROXIMAL, DISTAL, AND RADIAL MARGINS ARE NEGATIVE FOR TUMOR. - THE TUMOR IS 3.5 CM FROM THE PROXIMAL MARGIN CLOSEST MARGIN. - SUSPICIOUS FOR ANGIOLYMPHATIC INVASION. - NO PERINEURAL INVASION IDENTIFIED. - ASSOCIATED WITH A TUBULAR ADENOMA. - METASTATIC CARCINOMA TO TWO OF TWENTY FOUR LYMPH NODES 224, WITH EXTRANODAL EXTENSION. B. COLON, PROXIMAL MARGIN, SEGMENTAL RESECTION: - NO MALIGNANCY IDENTIFIED. C. COLON, DISTAL MARGIN, SEGMENTAL RESECTION: - NO MALIGNANCY IDENTIFIED. COMMENT: THE RESULTS OF EXPRESSION OF MISMATCH REPAIR PROTEINS WILL BE ISSUED AS AN ADDENDUM . SYNOPTIC REPORT - COLON  RECTUM Specimens Involved Specimens: A: SIGMOID COLON Specimen Type: Sigmoidectomy Tumor Site: Sigmoid colon Tumor Configuration: Exophytic polypoid Tumor size: 3.9cm Additional dimensions 3cm x 1.2cm WHO Classification Adenocarcinoma 81403 Histologic Grade: G3: Poorly differentiated Extent of Invasion: Subserosa Margins: Margins uninvolved by invasive carcinoma Proximal, Distal, Radial Distance of invasive carcinoma from closest margin: 3.5cm VenousLymphatic Invas ion: Absent Perineural Invasion: Absent Additional Pathologic Findings: Adenoma Extent of Resection: R0: Complete resection with grossly and microscopically negative margins Lymph Nodes: Positive 2  24 Extranodal extension: Present Implants: Absent Pathol ogical Staging pTNM: pT 3 N 1 M X CLINICAL HISTORY: None provided PRE-OPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: Colon ca ADDENDUM: ANALYSIS OF MISMATCH REPAIR PROTEIN EXPRESSION SUMMARY OF IMMUNOHISTOCHEMISTRYSPECIAL STAINS Material: Block A4 Population: Tumor Cells StainMarker: Result: Comment: MLH1 Positive MSH2 Positive MSH6 Positive PMS2 Negative The interpretation of the above immunohistochemistry stain or stains is guided by published results in the medical literature, provided package information from the manufacturer and by internal review of staining performance and assay validation within the of the. The use of one or more reagents in the above tests is regulated as an analyte specific reagent ASR . These tests were developed and their performance characteristic determined by the at. They have not been cleared or approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. The FDA has determined that such clearance or approval is not necessary. INTERPRETATION: No expression of PMS2 identified. Expression of MLH1, MSH2, MSH6, and PMS2 in the tumor was evaluated by immunohistochemistry. Peritumoral lymphocytes and normal glands serve as internal positive controls express ing MLH1, MSH2, MSH6, and PMS2. Testing for Microsatellite Instability has been ordered. The results will be issued in a separate report. 
 TCGA-05-6531 page 1 I 1 Examination: Histopathological examination Material: 1. Partial resection of organ- colon and caecum Physician In charge: Material collected on: Material received on: Expected time of examination: Clinical diagnosis: Cancer of the hepatic flexure Examination performed on: Macroscopic description: 25 em length of the large intestine with periintestinal fat tissue of 25 x 8 x 2cm. Omentum sized 12 x 10 em. Edge-thickened ulceration sized 4 x 3 em In the mucosa. The lesion covers 100 of the intestine circumference, located 12 em from the proximal cut end and 8 em from the distal cut end. The lesion macroscopically Infiltrates the perllntestinal tissue. Microscopic description: Adenocarcinoma tubulare G2. lnfiltratio carclnomatosa telae adiposae pericolicae. Intestine ends clear of neoplastic lesions. Lymphonodulitis reactiva No IV. Histopathological diagnosis: Adenocarcinoma tubulare coli. Tubular WQ::QJ!- G2; Dukes B; Astler-Coller 82; pT3; pNO. 
 chronoulistory UUID:DECA4002-D8E2-42A2-8170-BCDDA0D85878 Redacted I lull 11111111111111111111111111111111111111 I 111 oil 111111111111111Internal Sample IC166-0-3 ii- SRc3 Sufic: stlrm1d cd I,J 8 .7 Diagnosis Diagnoses: Colon  sigmoid resection specimen with bland diverticuli ,unremarkable oral and aboral resection margins and including an ulcerated ,moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma with infiltration of the lamina muscularis propria G2, pT2. A follow-up report on the lymph node status will be issued. Follow-up report: 34 lymph nodes of up to 0.9 cm in size were dissected out from the pericolic fatty tissue in thevicinity of the tumor after clarification with acetone. These were found to be entirely tumor-free on microscopy. In conclusion or in summary, therefore, a stage of pT2 pNO 034 is obtained. E
CGA-A6-2685 SPECIMEN Left colon CLINICAL NOTES PRE-OP DIAGNOSIS: Sigmoid colon cancer GROSS DESCRIPTION The specimen is received unfixed labeled left colon11 and consists of a colectomy specimen measuring 30 em in length and 3 em in diameter. There is abundant pericolonic fat. The entire specimen is 7 em in diameter. The colon is opened 11ith a single incision on the antirnesenteric surface. There is a pink neoplasm originating on the mucosal surface measuring 3.5 x 2.5 x 0.7 ern that is 9 em from one margin of resection. A portion of the specimen is taken for research purposes. Sections after clearing and fixation. BLOCK SUMMARY: 1,2 -Margins of resection; 3-6-tumor; 7-17 - lymph nodes. MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION Tumor type: Colonic adenocarcinoma. 2 out of 3 Tumor grade: Tumor size: 3.5 em. Distance to nearest margin: 9 em. Level of penetration: Carcinoma penetrates through the muscularis propria into pericolonic soft tissue. Hargins of resection: Negative for malignancy. Vascular invasion: Absent. Host response: Mild acute and chronic inflammation. Attached lymph nodes: There is no evidence of malignancy in any of twentynine pericolonic lymph nodes. Non-lymph node pericolonic tumor: Absent. MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION pTNt1 Stage: T3 NO. Other findings: None. 5 3260F 153.3 DIAGNOSIS Colon, left, resection: Moderately differentiated colonic adenocarcinoma. Note: Carcinoma invades through the muscularis propria into pericolonic soft tissue. There is no evidence of malignancy in any of twenty-nine pericolonic lymph nodes. 
Right hemicolectomy preparation with an ulcerated colon carcinoma of histological type of a moderately differentiated colorectal adenocarcinoma, measuring 3.5 cm in diameter at the widest point, located in the passage from the cecum to the ascen ding colon. Invasive spreading of the tumor to the muscularis propria. Diagnosis: Colonic mucous membrane with a small solitary tubular adenoma with moderate epithelial dysplasia synonymously: mild intraepithelial neoplasia. A coarse, nodular calcified focus of the mesenterium. It is most likely a completely calcified lymph node. Oral and aboral resection margin is tumor -free. 31 regular lymph nodes are tumor -free with uncharacteristically reactive changes. Tumor stage therefore pT2 nN0 031 V0 L0; G2 R0. 
IPath First Tumor Tumor Site: Hepatic Flexure Proximal Date of Cancer Sample Procurement: Histology: Adenocarcinoma Description of other histology:I Grade: Well Differentiated Mucinous: C No C Yes r YesFocalC Unknown Signet Ring Feature: R No C Yes C Yes FocalC Unknown Histologic Heterogeneity: r No r Yes C Unknown Host Response: Lymphoid Aggregates Crohns like reaction r None !: Yes C Unknown Plasma cell rich stroma r No C Yes C Unknown Growth Pattern: C: Expansile C Invasive C Expansile C Unknownand Invasive Inflammatory Bowel Disease r No C Yes C Unknown Angiolymphatic Invasion: r No C Yes - Unknown Mutator Phenotype: r No C Yes C Unknown Number of Slides 11 Garland Necrosis present: C No r Yes C Yes FocalC Unknown TIL Cells  HPF .2 Pathologist Comment: I UUID:F38C6493 -9BSD-4BEC-8IAB-B79CF6BD89A7 TCGA-DM-A282-01A-PR Redacted III IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 11111111111111111 III 11111111111111111111111111111111111111111IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIU IIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIao!,c c-t4cv,re, nuc vx Na BqYa13 CrNetla Diagnosis Discrepancy . rimary Tumor Site Discrepancy HIPM Discrepancy Prior Ma!inancy History DuilSynIuonous Primary NyMd Caan is lcircla :14 UAUYes I No ---F- i FIED  D U FIE Revie er Ionia! s --trite viewed:
Formatted Path Report LARGE INTESTINE TISSUE CHECKLIST Specimen type: Excision of tumor Specimen size: Not specifiedTumor site: ColonTumor size: 5 x 5 x 0.8 cmTumor features: None specifiedHistologic type: AdenocarcinomaHistologic grade: Moderately differentiatedTumor extent: SubserosaLymph nodes: Not specifiedMargins: Not specifiedEvidence of neo-adjuvant treatment: Not specifiedAdditional pathologic findings: Not specifiedComments: None Date of Procurement
Formatted Path Report LARGE INTESTINE TISSUE CHECKLIST Specimen type: Abdominal perineal resectionSpecimen size: Not specifiedTumor site: Sigmoid colonTumor size: 7.5 x 0 x 0 cmTumor features: UlceratedHistologic type: AdenocarcinomaHistologic grade: Moderately differentiatedTumor extent: Pericolonic tissuesLymph nodes: 312 positive for metastasis Adjacent fatty tissue 312Margins: UninvolvedEvidence of neo-adjuvant treatment: Not specifiedAdditional pathologic findings: Not specified Comments: None Date of Procurement 
Resected colon with a moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma of colorectal type, measuring 2.5 cm in diameter, with infiltration of the tunica muscularis propria. Tumor- free lymph nodes in the region. Tumor- free colon resection margins. Diagnosis: Tumor stage therefore pT2 pN0 021 pMX; G2, L0, V0, R local 0.
 Examination: Histopathological examination TCGA-05-6536 Material: 1. Multiple organ resection- sigmoid colon with rectum and two tumours Physician In charge: Material collected on: Material received on: Expected time of examination: Clinical diagnosis: Bi-focal cancer of the large intestine sigmoid colon and rectum SPECIMEN- sigmoid colon with rectum and two tumours. Proximal end marked with wire. Examination performed on: Macroscopic description: A 32 em length of Intestine with fat tissue sized 32 x 6 x 2 em. A cauliflower-shaped tumour sized 5 x 3 x 2.5 em found In the mucosa. The lesion surrounds 100 of the intestine circumference, narrowing Its lumen; removed 10 em from the proximal incision and 11 em from the distal incision. The lesion penetrates macroscopically the intestine wall and the fat tissue. Minimum side margin is 1.1 em. A second tumour seized 2.5 x 3 x 1 em located 5 em away from the first one, removed 22 em from the proximal boundary and 3 em from the distal one. The tumour penetrates the intestinal wall; side margin 2.5 em. Microscopic description: Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare partim mucinosum G3. lnfiltratlo carcinomatosa tunicae muscularis prioprlae et telae adiposae pericollcae Minimum side margin is 1.1 em. Intestine ends free of neoplastic lesions. Outside tumour 1: Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare Gl. lnfiltratio carclnomatosa tunicae muscularis priopriae et adlposae pericolicae. Lymphonoduiitis reactiva lymphonodorum No XIV. Histopathological diagnosis: denocardnltl::u;!:are partim musinosum coli bifocale. Tubulopapillar and partially,!ls bifocal f1J!ffi!l;tIJIRJllil;t!,eRl9ll;G3, Dukes B, Astler Coller 82, pT3, pNO. 
Diagnosis diagnoses: Colon resection sample with a moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma of the colorectal type, measuring a max of 3 cm in diameter, with infiltration of the pericolic fatty tissue, circumscribed penetration of the covering serosa and three local lymph node metastases. Tumor -free colon resection margins. Tumor -free mesenteric resection margin. The tumor stage is: pT4, pN1 321 pM1 clinical liver and lung metastasis L0, V0; clinically G2
UUID:603CaBEB-A258-454E-970D-SACABA1EE96D TCGA-AD-A5EK-91A-PR Redacted 1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 1111I11l111I1111I111111111111I1111I11ItI1111I11III111I1111i11I11T II I I II l fl llll ll ll l l 1111111111 IH I I11111I 111111111111111 I II III DIAGNOSIS: Colon and small intestine, segmental resections: Invasive adenocarcinoma, moderately differentiated tumor site cannot be determined but appears to be right colon or transverse colon or hepatic flexure tumor size 2.5 x 2 .3 x 1.0 cm macroscopic tumor perforation -not identified macroscopic intactness of mesorectum -not applicable histologic type -adenocarcinoma histologic grade -low-grade moderately differentiated infra-tumoral lymphocytic response - none pert-tumoral lymphocytic response - none mucinous tumor component -5 medullary tumor component - none tumor invades into but not through muscularis propria  6 .-- -3 L,ciq- r.Lv iv-yiJ, s 9,Yo3 G .0010N, A4;.,5 e i . f.Sit allmargins un involvedmargin 3 cm ,colonic ; ad alcircumferential distance 1.5 cm  treatment effect - not known and none seen lymphovascular permeation -not seen peri-neural invasion -not seen tumor deposits -not identified type of polyp -none identified pT2, pNO 011, pMx small intestine negative for tumor CLINICAL HISTORY: Preoperative Diagnosis :Adenocarcinoma of transverse colon mass Postoperative Diagnosis: Symptoms Radiologic Findings: SPECIMENS: Right colonE GROSS DESCRIPTION: The specimen is received in a single formalin filled container labeled with the patient s name , nd right colon and consists of a right hemicolectomy specimen comprised of terminal ileum 7 .5 cm in length by 2.0 cm in diameter ,cecurrurignt colon 23.0 cm in length and ranging from 3.5 up to 5.0 cm in diameter and vermiform appendix 4.7 cm in length and ranging from 0 .5 to 0 .7 cm in diameter. The specimen is received stapled closed at both ends .The serosa is pink -tan, smooth to shaggy and features adherent yellow -tan mesocolonic fat. The wall averages 0.7 cm in thickness .The distal colonic mucosa is remarkable for a 2.5 x 2 .3 x 1.0 cm ,tan-brown ,fungating mass that approaches to within 3.0 cm of the colonic margin and to within 20 .0 cm of the ileal margin .On sectioning ,the mass extends into but does not penetrate the muscularis and approaches to within 1,0 cm of the inked deep margin .The remainder of the mucosa is pink -tan and glistening with normal folds .No additional .lesions are identified. Sections through the appendix reveal a pinpoint lumen with no discrete lesions .On section and palpation ,multiple firm fatty possible lymph nodes are identified within the associated fat. They range from 0 .3 up to 1 .4 cm in greatest dimension. Also received in the same container is a 2.3 cm in length by 27 cm in diameter segment of small bowel received stapled closed at one end and opened at the opposite end. The serosa is pink-tan and glistening with adherent yellow -tan mesenteric fat On palpation ,no lymph nodes are identified. Representative sec tions are submitted in cassette Al-16 labeled : lesignated as follows :I heal margin ,en face ;2 colonic margin ,en face; 3-8 entire mass to ired deep margin .perpendicular 9 vermiform appendix ;w-11 six whole possible lymph nodes in each cassette; 12 four whole end from separately submitted bowel segment; 15 en face coons from separately submitted bowel segment Additionally,e a bisected lymph node;14 en face opened possible lymph nodes;a13 t one whitepossibledment ;16 random full thickness 5e fitted bowel seg labeledseparately ics research, each -awstapled end fromyellow and green cassette are e Submitted for genom Criteria r.rn irv ri,mn r Site Cicuepani v ti:ar.A r.. y.;ry Uu S i,oi renau !! 1T ar: r,O ra,ALIFIro I f:SEir. t!Frn
 ac Patholc giSt: ANAL PA1HOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS: Colon, rfgh. segmental resection: Tumor Ch racteristics: 1. Histologic type: Adenocarcinoma. 2. Histolog Ic grade: Moderately differentiated 3. Tumor IIlte: Right colon ...  4. Tumor lize: 3.0 x 2.7 x 0.5 em. 5. LymphcvasCUlar space invasion: Nqt Identified. 6. Perforajon of visceral peritoneum: !IO:, 7. Presen:s of mesenteric deposits: No: 8. Depth of InvasIon: Tumor Invades submucosa but not to the muscularisjJ:opria Surgical Margin Status: 1. Proximil margin: Negative 2. Distal nargln: Negative. 3. Deep radlaQ margin: NegatiVe. . 4. Distant:e of tumor from closest ma..Jln: Approximately 1 em from dIe Inked deep surface. Lymph Node Status: 1. Total number of lymph nodes examined: 22 2. Total n umber of lymph nodes containing metastatic carclnomll: None 0122. Other: 1. Other nlgnl1icant findings: Tubular adenomas; hyperplas lie polyp 2. pTNM stage: pT1 NO. COMMENTS: CLINICAl. HISTORY: right colon cancer postoper.aUVe Diagnosis: SymptOlT slRadlologlc Findings: SPECIMIEN8: Right col,n ::I ....   .. J  PROCEOUFAl Date of ::;,: Accession GROSS DEICRlpnON: The specimlJn is received in a single formalin filled container laheled with the pallents name light colon lind consists of a right hemicolectomy specimen complised of terminal ileum 4.5 em in length x 2.0 em In diameter, cscumright colon 10.5 em in length and ranging from 4.5 up to 7.0 em in diameter, and vermiformappendix 8.0 em In lEngth and ranging from 0.5 to 0.9 em in diameter. 100 specimen Is received slapled closed at both ends. The serosa Is tan-gray, smooth to shaggy with adherent yellow4an mesooolonic fat. On opening, the wail averages 0.7 em in thickness. Located within the pf0xlmal colon is a 3.0 x 2.7 x 0.5 em pink-tan fungating ma.ss.that approaches to within 6.f em of both the ileal and colonic margins. On section, thll: mass extends to abut the muscularis and approaehel. to within 1.0 em of the Ink.ed deep surface. DIscrete muscle invasion is not Identifier! grossly. The remainder of the mucosa Is remarkable for multiple pink-tan polypoid 1e.!lions ranging from 0.3 up to 1.4 em In greatest dimension. These approach to within 25 em of the colonic margin and 3.5 em of the ileal margin. On section, ail are confined to the mucosa. The appendix Is sectloned 10 reveat a pinpoint tJmen with no perforations orfecaliths. On seotion an1 palpation. multiple firm fatty possible lymph nodes are Identified within the associated fat They range from 0.3 uft to 1.0 em In greatest dimension. Representative sections are submitted In cassettes 1-14 labeled 713 Breedlove :leslgnated as follows: 1. Ileal margin, en face; 2, colonlo rnargln, en face; 3--5, entire mass to inked deep .---.... -.. -.-. .margln;.s:sectlonsIlncllldwhole polypoid lesions; 8, two full thl:fness sectlons to include entire largest I polypoid lesion; 9, vermiform appendix; 10-12, five whole possible lyOph nodes In each cassette; 13, four whole possible lymph nodes; 14, three whole possible lymph nodes. Additionall altIJWIled ror 
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY: COPY TO: Pre-Op Diagnosis Colon cancer Post-Op Diag nosis Same as above Clinical History Nothing indicated Gross Description: Container labeled .!IIII!II- right colon is a 17.5 cm previously opened portion of large bowel including cecum, as well as 6.6 cm of attached unopened terminal ileum. The specimen is covered by a moderate amount of pericolic, epiploic and omental adipose tissue. An 8.6 x 1.5 x 1.5 cm vermiform appendix is identified. The visible serosa is shaggy and gray pink. The wall is up to 0.5 cm edematous and fibrotic. The lumen is lined by gray-tan mucosa with preservation of intestinal folds. Noted within the cecal pouch at a point 1.2 cm from the ileocecal valve there is a 3.5 x 3.5 cm finely granular centrally ulcerated plaque-like gray pink lesion with raised rolled borders. On sectioning, this has a gritty gray-tan fibrotic cut surface measuring up to 1.4 cm. This grossly appears to extend through the wall and into the surrounding adipose tissue grossly to within 0.1 cm of the nearest outer surface margin. This lesion grossly impinges on and markedly constricts the appendiceal orifice. The appendiceal orifice is markedly constricted to 0.6 cm in diameter as opposed to 1.6 cm in diameter in the central portion of the appendix. The appendix has an intact gray tan fibrotic wall with smooth inner lining containing transparent viscid mucus. No gross lesion is noted within the appendix proper. On sectioning, the surrounding adipose tissue reveals several poorly defined gray tan to yellow nodules up to 2.2 cm. On sectioning the largest portion appears to be a mat of nodules having focally necrotic gray tan cut surfaces. Several of these nodules appear to be poorly defined and are associated with vascular structures. Also received tainer are three tissue cassettes each labeled Representative sections are submitted labeled as o ows: -proximal margin; B -distal margin with small fragment of small intestine; C-E -representative lesion; F-G - representative lesion to appendiceal orifice; H -random uninvolved bowel; I-J -representative appendix; K -largest pericolic nodule mat bisected; L-M -whole smaller pericolic nodules; N-R - representative pericolic fat. Microscopic Description: The slides labeled  are examined. See diagnosis. Final Diagnosis Distal ileum, appendix and right colon, segment: Tumor characteristics: Histologic type: Adenocarcinoma with mucinous component see comment Location of tumor: 1.2 cm from the ileocecal valve Size: 3.5 x 3.5 x 1.4 cm in greatest dimensions Grade: Moderately differentiated Lymphovascular space invasion: Yes Perforation of visceral peritoneum: Yes see comment Presence of mesenteric deposits: No Depth of invasion: Carcinoma extends through muscularis propria into subserosal adipose tissue with microscopic perforation. see comment Surgical margin status: Proximal margin: No carcinoma identified Distal margin: No carcinoma identified Radial deep margin: Carcinoma extends to serosal surface with perforation of visceral peritoneum see comment. Lymph node status: Total number of lymph nodes examined: 20 Total number of lymph nodes with metastatic carcinoma: 17 1720 PAS 9 Other: Appendix: Mucocele. PAS 3 SPC-A Stage: pT4a N2b see comment CPT: 88309 Comments The carcinoma extends up to the serosal surface and in slide F is associated with an area of desmoplasia-granulation tissue and mesothelial hyperplasia associated with the carcinoma consistent with an area of perforation. Therefore, this is staged as a pT4a lesion. Multiple lymph nodes are present within the mesentery. Some foci consist predominantly of adenocarcinoma with only a small amount of residual lymphoid tissue present and these are counted as lymph nodes totally replaced by tumor. Seventeen of 20 lymph nodes are positive for metastatic carcinoma. In addition, multiple foci of Iymphovascular space invasion are present within the mesentery. The carcinoma is an adenocarcinoma with focal mucinous component. The mucinous component is less than 50 of the tumor and, therefore, this does not qualify as a mucinouscolloid adenocarcinoma. Clinical correlation and followup is recommended. At the request of the undersigned pathologist, these slides have been additionally reviewed by Dr .... who concurs with the diagnosis. 
0-3 c3m.rtt. eGn- n1 u.ClvU uw NOS t i 3 UUID:A73A5ICC-5DDB-4DID-ABDC- 858856CC3BSD TCGA-DM-A1D6-01A-PR Redacted III II IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIII IIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII s:splay, ,CleKca, I a,, C g, S First Tumor Tumor Site :Splenic Flexure Distal Date of Cancer Sample Procurement: Histology :Adenocarcinoma Description of other histology: Grade:Moderately Differentiated  Mucinous : C No C YesYesFocalUnknown Signet Ring Feature : G, NoC Yes Yes FocalrUnknown Histologic Heterogeneity : No C Yes CUnknown Host Response :Lymphoid Aggregates  Crohn s like reactionC None Yes r Unknown Plasma cell rich stromar No rYes r-Unknown Growth Pattern :C Expansile InvasiveC ExpansileC Unknownand Invasive Inflammatory Bowel Diseaserw No C Yes C Unknown Angiolymphatic Invasion : No r Yes rUnknown Mutator Phenotype :C No Yes r Unknown Number of Slides Garland Necrosis present : No r YesC Yes FocalC Unknown TIL Cells  HPF10 Pathologist Comment: Criteria Yes qj Diagnosis Discrepanry Primary Tumor Site Discrepancy HII APDis Discrepancy Prior Malignancy History DualSynchronous atyN d Use is circle: Q AUFIE  ISQUA ED Reviewer InilisiY aC veWCd 
Department of Cancer Pathology Examination: Histopathological examination re Material: Partial organ resection- transverse colon Physician in charge: Material collected on: Material received on: Expected time of examination: Clinical diagnosis: transverse colon with tumour. Examination performed on: Macroscopic description: page 1 I 1 TCGA-05-6537 14 em length of the large Intestine with a piece of mesocolon sized 12 x 5 x 2 em and a fragment of omentum sized 22 x 11 x 1 em. Calliflower-shaped tumour sized 3 x 3.5 em in the intestinal mucosa. The lesion surrounds 100 of the circumference, located 3 em from the one cut line, and 3 em from the opposite one. Minimal side margin Is 1.8 em. A polyp 0.5 em i diameter found off the tumour. Microscopic description: Adenocarcinoma tubulare partim mucinosum G3. lnfiltratio carcinomatosa tunicae muscularis priopriae et telae adlposae pericolicae. Excision lines free of neoplastic lesions. Outside the tumour: Adenoma tubuiare cum dysplasia gradus levioris. Omentum sine metastaslbus. Metastases carclnomatosae in lymphonodo No 1XI. Histopathological diagnosis: Adenocarcinoma tubulare mucinosum partim coli. Metastases carcinomatosae In lymphonodo No 1XII. Tubular and partially mucinous adenocarcinoma of the colon. G3, Duke C, Astler-Coller C2, pT3, pNia. CONTACT YOUR DOCTOR WITH THIS REPORT! 
 SPECIMEN Sigmoid colon CLINICAL NOTES PRE- OP DIAGNOSIS: Sigmoid colon cancer GROSS DESCRIPTION Received fresh and subsequently fixed in formalin is a partially opened colon which is 24 cm long. One end of the specimen is stapled and inked blue; the opposite end of the specimen is opened and is inked black. No orientation of the specimen is given. No retroperitoneal reflection is grossly identified. There is a suture on the surface of the serosa. The serosa is pink- tan smooth glistening and the remainder of the specimen is partially covered with abundant yellow lobular fat. The suture is located 7.5 cm from the black inked end. The specimen is opened to show pink- tan smooth glistening mucosa with normal to abundant folds having an average circumference of 4.5 cm and showing multiple diverticula present. There is also a 2.7 x 2.2 x 0.4 cm tumor which is located 7.5 cm from the black inked end. This is in the same area as the suture. The cut surface of the tumor shows minimal invasion into the muscularis propria showing no discrete invasion into the fat. No other discrete gross lesions are identified in the mucosa. No submucosal aphthoses or perforation are grossly identified. Lymph nodes are grossly identified in the fat. Representative sections of the specimen are submitted as follows: Block 1 - representative luminal margins; Blocks 2- 4 - representative sections of tumor to normal and tumor to fat; Block 5 - representative section of diverticula; Block A6 - nine possible lymph nodes; Block A7 - two possible lymph nodes; Block A8 - nine sible lymph nodes; Block A9 - four possible lymph nodes. RS- 9. MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION Histologic type: Adenocarcinoma Histologic grade: Moderately- differentiated Primary tumor pT2: Carcinoma is into but not through muscularis propria Proximaldistalradial margin: Negative Vascular invasion: Negative Regional lymph nodes pN: Sixteen negative lymph nodes 016 Non- lymph node pericolonic tumor: Not identified 5 DIAGNOSIS Colon, sigmoid, segmental resection: Adenocarcinoma, moderately- differentiated, invading into but not through the muscularis propria. Sixteen negative lymph nodes 016.  --- End Of Report --- 
 .... Clinical Diagnosis  History: History of right colon cancer and diverticulitis. Here for total abdominal colectomy. Specimens Submitted: 1: SP: Terminal ileum and colon; total abdominal colectomy DIAGNOSIS: 1. SP: Terminal ileum and colon; total abdominal colectomy: Tumor Type: Mucinous adenocarcinoma with a minor component that is of conventional gland-forming type Histologic Grade: Moderately to poorly differentiated Tumor Location: Ascending colon Tumor Size: Length is 3.0 cm Width is 2.6 cm Maximal thickness is 0.9 cm Tumor Budding: Extensive Increased Tumor Infiltrating Lymphocytes: Present Precursor Lesions: Tubulovillous adenoma Deepest Tumor Invasion: Subserosal adipose tissue andor mesenteric fat Gross Tumor Perforation: Not identified Lymphovascular Invasion: Identified Large Venous Invasion: Suspected Perineural Invasion: Identified Surgical Margins: Free of tumor PolypsMucosa Dysplasia away from the carcinoma:  Continued on next page  ------------------------------------------------------------ Page 2 of 4 Tubular adenoma; number: 2 Non-Neoplastic Bowel: Diverticulosis of left colon Appendix: Unremarkable Lymph Nodes: Number with metastasis: 1 Total number examined: 46 Tumor deposits in pericolorectal soft tissue: Not Identified Tumor Staging AJCC 7th Edition: pT3 Tumor invades through the muscularis propria into pericolorectal tissues Lymph Node Stage AJCC 7th Edition: N1 Metastasis in 1-3 regional lymph nodes -------------------------------------------------------- I ATTEST THAT THE ABOVE DIAGNOSIS IS BASED UPON MY PERSONAL EXAMINATION OF THE SLIDES ANDOR OTHER MATERIAL, AND THAT I HAVE REVIEWED AND APPROVED THIS REPORT. Gross Description: 1. The specimen is received fresh, labeled total abdominal colectomy and consists of a segment of terminal ileum, cecum with attached appendix and colon. The terminal ileum measures 11.0 cm in length and 4.2 cm in circumference at the proximal resected margin. The remaining colon measures 96.0 cm in length with a circumference of 6.0 cm at the distal resected margin. The attached appendix measures 8.0 cm in length and averages 0.7 cm in diameter. The appendiceal and intestinal serosa is pink tan and smooth. Focally hemorrhagic lobulated yellow tan adipose tissue spans the length of the specimen measuring up to 1.3 cm in thickness. The specimen is opened to reveal a mass lesion measuring 3.0 cm in length and 2.6 cm in width. The mass is located in the ascending colon, 16.1 cm from the proximal margin and 89.0 cm from the distal margin. Sectioning shows that the tumor invades into the muscularis propria. The depth of invasion is 0.9 cm grossly. The are two polyps measuring 0.2 and 0.7 cm in the transverse colon. Diverticula and muscle wall thickening are present in the distal 14.0 cm of the colon. The remaining mucosa is grossly unremarkable. The attached adipose tissue is thoroughly examined and all identified lymph nodes are submitted. Representative sections of the specimen are submitted for permanent sections and for TPS. Summary of sections: P - proximal margin shave  Continued on next page  ------------------------------------------------------------ Page 3 of 4 D - distal margin shave T - tumor POL- two polyps in transverse colon DIV- diverticula A - appendix representative sections RS -representative sections LN - lymph nodes BLN - bisected lymph nodes Summary of Sections: Part 1: SP: Terminal ileum and colon; total abdominal colectomy Block Sect. Site PCs 1 a 1 1 bln 1 1 d 1 4 div 4 10 ln 25 1 p 1 1 pol 1 1 rs 1 4 t 4 Addendum Diagnosis -RESULTS OF IMMUNOHISTOCHEMICAL STAINING FOR DNA MISMATCH REPAIR PROTEINS ARE AS FOLLOWS: MLH1: STAINING PRESENT IN TUMOR MSH2: STAINING ABSENT IN TUMOR MSH6:STAINING ABSENT IN TUMOR PMS2: STAINING PRESENT IN TUMOR CONCLUSION: -IMMUNOHISTOCHEMICAL STUDIES DEMONSTRATE ABNORMAL MSH2 AND MSH6 PROTEIN EXPRESSION IN THE CARCINOMA. CLINICAL CORRELATION IS SUGGESTED. NOTE: STAINS PERFORMED ON A SEPARATE ADENOMA SHOW A NORMAL STAINING PATTERN FOR ALL 4 PROTEINS MLH1, MSH2, MSH6 AND PMS2. Some of the immunohistochemistry and ISH tests were developed and their performance characteristics were determined by the Department of Pathology. They have not been cleared or approved by the US Food and Drug Administration. The FDA has determined that such clearance or approval is  Continued on next page  ------------------------------------------------------------ Page 4 of 4 not necessary. These tests are used for clinical purposes. They should not be regarded as investigational or for research. This laboratory is certified under the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments of as qualified to perform high complexity clinical laboratory testing.  End of Report  
 SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT .... Clinical Diagnosis  History: Colon carcinoma. Specimens Submitted: 1: SP: RIGHT COLON; HEMICOLECTOMY DIAGNOSIS: 1. SP: RIGHT COLON; HEMICOLECTOMY: Tumor Type: Adenocarcinoma Histologic Grade: Moderately differentiated Tumor Location: Ascending colon Tumor Size: Length is 3.5 cm Width is 3.1 cm Maximal thickness is 0.5 cm Tumor Budding: Absent Increased Tumor Infiltrating Lymphocytes: Absent Precursor Lesions: Tubulovillous adenoma Deepest Tumor Invasion: Muscularis propria Gross Tumor Perforation: Not identified Lymphovascular Invasion: Not identified Large Venous Invasion: Not Identified Perineural Invasion: Not identified Surgical Margins: Free of tumor PolypsMucosa Dysplasia away from the carcinoma: Not Identified Non-Neoplastic Bowel: Unremarkable  Continued on next page  ------------------------------------------------------------ Page 2 of 3 Appendix: Unremarkable Lymph Nodes: Number with metastasis: 0 Total number examined: 28 Tumor deposits in pericolorectal soft tissue: Not Identified Tumor Staging AJCC 7th Edition: pT2 Tumor invades muscularis propria Lymph Node Stage AJCC 7th Edition: N0 No regional lymph node metastasis -------------------------------------------------------- I ATTEST THAT THE ABOVE DIAGNOSIS IS BASED UPON MY PERSONAL EXAMINATION OF THE SLIDES ANDOR OTHER MATERIAL, AND THAT I HAVE REVIEWED AND APPROVED THIS REPORT. Gross Description: 1. The specimen is received fresh, labeled Right colon and consists of a segment of terminal ileum and colon with attached omentum. The terminal ileum measures 14.5 cm in length and 3.0 cm in circumference at the proximal resection margin, which is inked violet. The remaining colon measures 26.3 in length with a circumference of 6.6 cm at the distal resection margin, which is inked orange. The attached appendix measures 6.1 cm in length and averages 0.4 cm in diameter. The appendiceal and intestinal serosa is pink and smooth. Lobulated fatty tissue spans the length of the specimen measuring up to 5.2 cm in thickness. The attached omentum measures 7 x 6 x 1.3 centimeters. The specimen is opened to reveal a pink-tan fungating mass measuring 3.5 cm in length and 3.1 cm in width. The mass is located in the ascending colon, 4.5 cm from the ileocecal valve, 17.8 cm from the proximal margin and 16.1 cm from the distal margin. Sectioning shows a depth of invasion of 0.2 cm grossly. A tatoo is identified adjacent to the tumor. Multiple diverticula are present. The remaining mucosa is unremarkable. The attached adipose tissue is submitted for lymph node dissection, and all identified lymph nodes are submitted. Representative sections of the specimen are submitted for permanent sections and for TPS. Summary of sections: P - proximal margin shave D - distal margin shave T tumor, in toto A - appendix representative sections RSI -representative sections, ileum RSC representative sections, colon  Continued on next page  ------------------------------------------------------------ Page 3 of 3 DI - diverticula O-omentum LN - lymph nodes BLN - bisected lymph nodes Summary of Sections: Part 1: SP: RIGHT COLON; HEMICOLECTOMY Block Sect. Site PCs 2 a 2 1 d 1 2 di 2 8 LN 24 1 o 1 1 p 1 1 rsc 2 1 rsi 1 8 t 8  End of Report  
 page 1  1 page 1  1 page 1  1 page 1  1 page 1  1 page 1  1 Department of Cancer Pathology Department of Cancer Pathology Department of Cancer Pathology Department of Cancer Pathology Department of Cancer Pathology Department of Cancer Pathology Department of Cancer Pathology Department of Cancer Pathology Department of Cancer Pathology Department of Cancer Pathology Department of Cancer Pathology ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon ExaminaFon: Histopathological examinaFon PaKent: XXX PaKent: XXX PESEL: XXX PESEL: XXX PESEL: XXX PESEL: XXX Age: Gender: Gender: Gender: Gender: Gender: Gender: Gender: Material: Total organ resecFon  segment of the large intesFneMaterial: Total organ resecFon  segment of the large intesFneMaterial: Total organ resecFon  segment of the large intesFneMaterial: Total organ resecFon  segment of the large intesFneMaterial: Total organ resecFon  segment of the large intesFneMaterial: Total organ resecFon  segment of the large intesFneMaterial: Total organ resecFon  segment of the large intesFneMaterial: Total organ resecFon  segment of the large intesFneMaterial: Total organ resecFon  segment of the large intesFneMaterial: Total organ resecFon  segment of the large intesFneMaterial: Total organ resecFon  segment of the large intesFneMaterial: Total organ resecFon  segment of the large intesFneMaterial: Total organ resecFon  segment of the large intesFneMaterial: Total organ resecFon  segment of the large intesFne Unit in charge: Unit in charge: Unit in charge: Unit in charge: Unit in charge: Unit in charge: Unit in charge: Unit in charge: Unit in charge: Unit in charge: Unit in charge: Unit in charge: Unit in charge: Unit in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Physician in charge: Material collected on: Material collected on: Material collected on: Material received on: Material received on: Material received on: Material received on: Material received on: Material received on: Expected Kme of examinaKon: Expected Kme of examinaKon: Expected Kme of examinaKon: Expected Kme of examinaKon: Expected Kme of examinaKon: Expected Kme of examinaKon: Expected Kme of examinaKon: Expected Kme of examinaKon: Expected Kme of examinaKon: Expected Kme of examinaKon: Expected Kme of examinaKon: Expected Kme of examinaKon: Expected Kme of examinaKon: Expected Kme of examinaKon: Clinical diagnosis: Tumour of the hepatic flexure. Clinical diagnosis: Tumour of the hepatic flexure. Clinical diagnosis: Tumour of the hepatic flexure. Clinical diagnosis: Tumour of the hepatic flexure. Clinical diagnosis: Tumour of the hepatic flexure. Clinical diagnosis: Tumour of the hepatic flexure. Clinical diagnosis: Tumour of the hepatic flexure. Clinical diagnosis: Tumour of the hepatic flexure. Clinical diagnosis: Tumour of the hepatic flexure. Clinical diagnosis: Tumour of the hepatic flexure. Clinical diagnosis: Tumour of the hepatic flexure. Clinical diagnosis: Tumour of the hepatic flexure. Clinical diagnosis: Tumour of the hepatic flexure. Clinical diagnosis: Tumour of the hepatic flexure. ExaminaKon performed on:ExaminaKon performed on:ExaminaKon performed on:ExaminaKon performed on:ExaminaKon performed on:ExaminaKon performed on:ExaminaKon performed on:ExaminaKon performed on:ExaminaKon performed on:ExaminaKon performed on: Macroscopic descripKon : An 18 cm length of the large intesFne with a piece of the mesentery sized 20 x 7 x 5 cm, with a 7.5 cm length of the small intesFne, and a fragment of the omentum sized 11 x 8 x l,5. A cauliower-shaped, ulcerous tumour sized 5.5 x 4 x 2.2 cm found in the mucosa. The lesion surrounds 100 of the intesFne circumference, narrowing its lumen, is located 10.5 cm from the proximal incision line, 7 cm from the distal incision line, and 3 cm from the Bauhnins valve. Minimum side margin 6.5 cm.Macroscopic descripKon : An 18 cm length of the large intesFne with a piece of the mesentery sized 20 x 7 x 5 cm, with a 7.5 cm length of the small intesFne, and a fragment of the omentum sized 11 x 8 x l,5. A cauliower-shaped, ulcerous tumour sized 5.5 x 4 x 2.2 cm found in the mucosa. The lesion surrounds 100 of the intesFne circumference, narrowing its lumen, is located 10.5 cm from the proximal incision line, 7 cm from the distal incision line, and 3 cm from the Bauhnins valve. Minimum side margin 6.5 cm.Macroscopic descripKon : An 18 cm length of the large intesFne with a piece of the mesentery sized 20 x 7 x 5 cm, with a 7.5 cm length of the small intesFne, and a fragment of the omentum sized 11 x 8 x l,5. A cauliower-shaped, ulcerous tumour sized 5.5 x 4 x 2.2 cm found in the mucosa. The lesion surrounds 100 of the intesFne circumference, narrowing its lumen, is located 10.5 cm from the proximal incision line, 7 cm from the distal incision line, and 3 cm from the Bauhnins valve. Minimum side margin 6.5 cm.Macroscopic descripKon : An 18 cm length of the large intesFne with a piece of the mesentery sized 20 x 7 x 5 cm, with a 7.5 cm length of the small intesFne, and a fragment of the omentum sized 11 x 8 x l,5. A cauliower-shaped, ulcerous tumour sized 5.5 x 4 x 2.2 cm found in the mucosa. The lesion surrounds 100 of the intesFne circumference, narrowing its lumen, is located 10.5 cm from the proximal incision line, 7 cm from the distal incision line, and 3 cm from the Bauhnins valve. Minimum side margin 6.5 cm.Macroscopic descripKon : An 18 cm length of the large intesFne with a piece of the mesentery sized 20 x 7 x 5 cm, with a 7.5 cm length of the small intesFne, and a fragment of the omentum sized 11 x 8 x l,5. A cauliower-shaped, ulcerous tumour sized 5.5 x 4 x 2.2 cm found in the mucosa. The lesion surrounds 100 of the intesFne circumference, narrowing its lumen, is located 10.5 cm from the proximal incision line, 7 cm from the distal incision line, and 3 cm from the Bauhnins valve. Minimum side margin 6.5 cm.Macroscopic descripKon : An 18 cm length of the large intesFne with a piece of the mesentery sized 20 x 7 x 5 cm, with a 7.5 cm length of the small intesFne, and a fragment of the omentum sized 11 x 8 x l,5. A cauliower-shaped, ulcerous tumour sized 5.5 x 4 x 2.2 cm found in the mucosa. The lesion surrounds 100 of the intesFne circumference, narrowing its lumen, is located 10.5 cm from the proximal incision line, 7 cm from the distal incision line, and 3 cm from the Bauhnins valve. Minimum side margin 6.5 cm.Macroscopic descripKon : An 18 cm length of the large intesFne with a piece of the mesentery sized 20 x 7 x 5 cm, with a 7.5 cm length of the small intesFne, and a fragment of the omentum sized 11 x 8 x l,5. A cauliower-shaped, ulcerous tumour sized 5.5 x 4 x 2.2 cm found in the mucosa. The lesion surrounds 100 of the intesFne circumference, narrowing its lumen, is located 10.5 cm from the proximal incision line, 7 cm from the distal incision line, and 3 cm from the Bauhnins valve. Minimum side margin 6.5 cm.Macroscopic descripKon : An 18 cm length of the large intesFne with a piece of the mesentery sized 20 x 7 x 5 cm, with a 7.5 cm length of the small intesFne, and a fragment of the omentum sized 11 x 8 x l,5. A cauliower-shaped, ulcerous tumour sized 5.5 x 4 x 2.2 cm found in the mucosa. The lesion surrounds 100 of the intesFne circumference, narrowing its lumen, is located 10.5 cm from the proximal incision line, 7 cm from the distal incision line, and 3 cm from the Bauhnins valve. Minimum side margin 6.5 cm.Macroscopic descripKon : An 18 cm length of the large intesFne with a piece of the mesentery sized 20 x 7 x 5 cm, with a 7.5 cm length of the small intesFne, and a fragment of the omentum sized 11 x 8 x l,5. A cauliower-shaped, ulcerous tumour sized 5.5 x 4 x 2.2 cm found in the mucosa. The lesion surrounds 100 of the intesFne circumference, narrowing its lumen, is located 10.5 cm from the proximal incision line, 7 cm from the distal incision line, and 3 cm from the Bauhnins valve. Minimum side margin 6.5 cm.Macroscopic descripKon : An 18 cm length of the large intesFne with a piece of the mesentery sized 20 x 7 x 5 cm, with a 7.5 cm length of the small intesFne, and a fragment of the omentum sized 11 x 8 x l,5. A cauliower-shaped, ulcerous tumour sized 5.5 x 4 x 2.2 cm found in the mucosa. The lesion surrounds 100 of the intesFne circumference, narrowing its lumen, is located 10.5 cm from the proximal incision line, 7 cm from the distal incision line, and 3 cm from the Bauhnins valve. Minimum side margin 6.5 cm.Macroscopic descripKon : An 18 cm length of the large intesFne with a piece of the mesentery sized 20 x 7 x 5 cm, with a 7.5 cm length of the small intesFne, and a fragment of the omentum sized 11 x 8 x l,5. A cauliower-shaped, ulcerous tumour sized 5.5 x 4 x 2.2 cm found in the mucosa. The lesion surrounds 100 of the intesFne circumference, narrowing its lumen, is located 10.5 cm from the proximal incision line, 7 cm from the distal incision line, and 3 cm from the Bauhnins valve. Minimum side margin 6.5 cm.Macroscopic descripKon : An 18 cm length of the large intesFne with a piece of the mesentery sized 20 x 7 x 5 cm, with a 7.5 cm length of the small intesFne, and a fragment of the omentum sized 11 x 8 x l,5. A cauliower-shaped, ulcerous tumour sized 5.5 x 4 x 2.2 cm found in the mucosa. The lesion surrounds 100 of the intesFne circumference, narrowing its lumen, is located 10.5 cm from the proximal incision line, 7 cm from the distal incision line, and 3 cm from the Bauhnins valve. Minimum side margin 6.5 cm.Macroscopic descripKon : An 18 cm length of the large intesFne with a piece of the mesentery sized 20 x 7 x 5 cm, with a 7.5 cm length of the small intesFne, and a fragment of the omentum sized 11 x 8 x l,5. A cauliower-shaped, ulcerous tumour sized 5.5 x 4 x 2.2 cm found in the mucosa. The lesion surrounds 100 of the intesFne circumference, narrowing its lumen, is located 10.5 cm from the proximal incision line, 7 cm from the distal incision line, and 3 cm from the Bauhnins valve. Minimum side margin 6.5 cm.Macroscopic descripKon : An 18 cm length of the large intesFne with a piece of the mesentery sized 20 x 7 x 5 cm, with a 7.5 cm length of the small intesFne, and a fragment of the omentum sized 11 x 8 x l,5. A cauliower-shaped, ulcerous tumour sized 5.5 x 4 x 2.2 cm found in the mucosa. The lesion surrounds 100 of the intesFne circumference, narrowing its lumen, is located 10.5 cm from the proximal incision line, 7 cm from the distal incision line, and 3 cm from the Bauhnins valve. Minimum side margin 6.5 cm. Microscopic descripKon : Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare parFm mucinosum G3. InltraFo carcinomatosa tuncae muscularis propriae et telae adiposae pericolicae. Incision lines clear of neoplasFc lesions. Metastases carcinomatosae in lymphonodis No IIIVI. InltraFo carcinomatosa telae adiposae perinodalis. LymphonoduliFs reacFva No XVIII.Adjacent omentum fragment free of cancer.Microscopic descripKon : Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare parFm mucinosum G3. InltraFo carcinomatosa tuncae muscularis propriae et telae adiposae pericolicae. Incision lines clear of neoplasFc lesions. Metastases carcinomatosae in lymphonodis No IIIVI. InltraFo carcinomatosa telae adiposae perinodalis. LymphonoduliFs reacFva No XVIII.Adjacent omentum fragment free of cancer.Microscopic descripKon : Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare parFm mucinosum G3. InltraFo carcinomatosa tuncae muscularis propriae et telae adiposae pericolicae. Incision lines clear of neoplasFc lesions. Metastases carcinomatosae in lymphonodis No IIIVI. InltraFo carcinomatosa telae adiposae perinodalis. LymphonoduliFs reacFva No XVIII.Adjacent omentum fragment free of cancer.Microscopic descripKon : Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare parFm mucinosum G3. InltraFo carcinomatosa tuncae muscularis propriae et telae adiposae pericolicae. Incision lines clear of neoplasFc lesions. Metastases carcinomatosae in lymphonodis No IIIVI. InltraFo carcinomatosa telae adiposae perinodalis. LymphonoduliFs reacFva No XVIII.Adjacent omentum fragment free of cancer.Microscopic descripKon : Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare parFm mucinosum G3. InltraFo carcinomatosa tuncae muscularis propriae et telae adiposae pericolicae. Incision lines clear of neoplasFc lesions. Metastases carcinomatosae in lymphonodis No IIIVI. InltraFo carcinomatosa telae adiposae perinodalis. LymphonoduliFs reacFva No XVIII.Adjacent omentum fragment free of cancer.Microscopic descripKon : Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare parFm mucinosum G3. InltraFo carcinomatosa tuncae muscularis propriae et telae adiposae pericolicae. Incision lines clear of neoplasFc lesions. Metastases carcinomatosae in lymphonodis No IIIVI. InltraFo carcinomatosa telae adiposae perinodalis. LymphonoduliFs reacFva No XVIII.Adjacent omentum fragment free of cancer.Microscopic descripKon : Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare parFm mucinosum G3. InltraFo carcinomatosa tuncae muscularis propriae et telae adiposae pericolicae. Incision lines clear of neoplasFc lesions. Metastases carcinomatosae in lymphonodis No IIIVI. InltraFo carcinomatosa telae adiposae perinodalis. LymphonoduliFs reacFva No XVIII.Adjacent omentum fragment free of cancer.Microscopic descripKon : Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare parFm mucinosum G3. InltraFo carcinomatosa tuncae muscularis propriae et telae adiposae pericolicae. Incision lines clear of neoplasFc lesions. Metastases carcinomatosae in lymphonodis No IIIVI. InltraFo carcinomatosa telae adiposae perinodalis. LymphonoduliFs reacFva No XVIII.Adjacent omentum fragment free of cancer.Microscopic descripKon : Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare parFm mucinosum G3. InltraFo carcinomatosa tuncae muscularis propriae et telae adiposae pericolicae. Incision lines clear of neoplasFc lesions. Metastases carcinomatosae in lymphonodis No IIIVI. InltraFo carcinomatosa telae adiposae perinodalis. LymphonoduliFs reacFva No XVIII.Adjacent omentum fragment free of cancer.Microscopic descripKon : Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare parFm mucinosum G3. InltraFo carcinomatosa tuncae muscularis propriae et telae adiposae pericolicae. Incision lines clear of neoplasFc lesions. Metastases carcinomatosae in lymphonodis No IIIVI. InltraFo carcinomatosa telae adiposae perinodalis. LymphonoduliFs reacFva No XVIII.Adjacent omentum fragment free of cancer.Microscopic descripKon : Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare parFm mucinosum G3. InltraFo carcinomatosa tuncae muscularis propriae et telae adiposae pericolicae. Incision lines clear of neoplasFc lesions. Metastases carcinomatosae in lymphonodis No IIIVI. InltraFo carcinomatosa telae adiposae perinodalis. LymphonoduliFs reacFva No XVIII.Adjacent omentum fragment free of cancer.Microscopic descripKon : Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare parFm mucinosum G3. InltraFo carcinomatosa tuncae muscularis propriae et telae adiposae pericolicae. Incision lines clear of neoplasFc lesions. Metastases carcinomatosae in lymphonodis No IIIVI. InltraFo carcinomatosa telae adiposae perinodalis. LymphonoduliFs reacFva No XVIII.Adjacent omentum fragment free of cancer.Microscopic descripKon : Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare parFm mucinosum G3. InltraFo carcinomatosa tuncae muscularis propriae et telae adiposae pericolicae. Incision lines clear of neoplasFc lesions. Metastases carcinomatosae in lymphonodis No IIIVI. InltraFo carcinomatosa telae adiposae perinodalis. LymphonoduliFs reacFva No XVIII.Adjacent omentum fragment free of cancer.Microscopic descripKon : Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare parFm mucinosum G3. InltraFo carcinomatosa tuncae muscularis propriae et telae adiposae pericolicae. Incision lines clear of neoplasFc lesions. Metastases carcinomatosae in lymphonodis No IIIVI. InltraFo carcinomatosa telae adiposae perinodalis. LymphonoduliFs reacFva No XVIII.Adjacent omentum fragment free of cancer. Compliance validated by: Compliance validated by: Compliance validated by: Compliance validated by: Compliance validated by: Compliance validated by: Compliance validated by: Compliance validated by: Compliance validated by: Histopathological diagnosis: Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare parFm mucinosum coli. Tubulopapillar and parFally mucinous adenocarcinoma of the colon. G3, Dukes B, Astler-Coller B2, pT3, pNO. CONTACT YOUR DOCTOR WITH THIS REPORT! 
L ARGE INTESTINE TISSUE CHECKLIST Specimen type: Hemicolectomy Specimen size: Not specifiedTumor site: ColonTumor size: 9 x 8.5 x 8 cmTumor features: None specifiedHistologic type: AdenocarcinomaHistologic grade: Poorly differentiatedTumor extent: Pericolonic tissuesLymph nodes: Not specifiedMargins: Not specifiedEvidence of neo-adjuvant treatment: Not specifiedAdditional pathologic findings: Not specifiedComments: None
3EFG H,;ABCB0EF 3EFG H,;ABCB0EF 3EFG H,;ABCB0EF 3EFG H,;ABCB0EF 3EFG H,;ABCB0EF 3EFG H,;ABCB0EF 3EFG H,;ABCB0EF 3EFG H,;ABCB0EF 3EFG H,;ABCB0EF 3EFG H,;ABCB0EF 3EFG H,;ABCB0EF 3EFG H,;ABCB0EF 3EFG H,;ABCB0EF J429GK-G32L-:J429GK-G32L-:J429GK-G32L-:J429GK-G32L-: I-64-AFGM-6N3H-32FO2I-64-AFGM-6N3H-32FO2I-64-AFGM-6N3H-32FO2I-64-AFGM-6N3H-32FO2I-64-AFGM-6N3H-32FO2I-64-AFGM-6N3H-32FO2 UUUUUU S42G9;6FBC0,0FV,0C0?A0BC00,F0S42G9;6FBC0,0FV,0C0?A0BC00,F0S42G9;6FBC0,0FV,0C0?A0BC00,F0S42G9;6FBC0,0FV,0C0?A0BC00,F0S42G9;6FBC0,0FV,0C0?A0BC00,F0S42G9;6FBC0,0FV,0C0?A0BC00,F0S42G9;6FBC0,0FV,0C0?A0BC00,F0S42G9;6FBC0,0FV,0C0?A0BC00,F0S42G9;6FBC0,0FV,0C0?A0BC00,F0S42G9;6FBC0,0FV,0C0?A0BC00,F0S42G9;6FBC0,0FV,0C0?A0BC00,F0S42G9;6FBC0,0FV,0C0?A0BC00,F0S42G9;6FBC0,0FV,0C0?A0BC00,F0 PBH2342FNV2-A2BVGN-;;TCD,PBH2342FNV2-A2BVGN-;;TCD,PBH2342FNV2-A2BVGN-;;TCD,PBH2342FNV2-A2BVGN-;;TCD,PBH2342FNV2-A2BVGN-;;TCD,PBH2342FNV2-A2BVGN-;;TCD,PBH2342FNV2-A2BVGN-;;TCD,PBH2342FNV2-A2BVGN-;;TCD,PBH2342FNV2-A2BVGN-;;TCD,PBH2342FNV2-A2BVGN-;;TCD,PBH2342FNV2-A2BVGN-;;TCD,PBH2342FNV2-A2BVGN-;;TCD,PBH2342FNV2-A2BVGN-;;TCD, Clinical diagnosis: Ca. colonis. 63.W!39V,X0,0BA IClinical diagnosis: Ca. colonis. 63.W!39V,X0,0BA IClinical diagnosis: Ca. colonis. 63.W!39V,X0,0BA IClinical diagnosis: Ca. colonis. 63.W!39V,X0,0BA IClinical diagnosis: Ca. colonis. 63.W!39V,X0,0BA IClinical diagnosis: Ca. colonis. 63.W!39V,X0,0BA IClinical diagnosis: Ca. colonis. 63.W!39V,X0,0BA IClinical diagnosis: Ca. colonis. 63.W!39V,X0,0BA IClinical diagnosis: Ca. colonis. 63.W!39V,X0,0BA IClinical diagnosis: Ca. colonis. 63.W!39V,X0,0BA IClinical diagnosis: Ca. colonis. 63.W!39V,X0,0BA IClinical diagnosis: Ca. colonis. 63.W!39V,X0,0BA IClinical diagnosis: Ca. colonis. 63.W!39V,X0,0BA I PBVGN-H2A-V2F-;PBVGN-H2A-V2F-;PBVGN-H2A-V2F-;PBVGN-H2A-V2F-;PBVGN-H2A-V2F-;PBVGN-H2A-V2F-;PBVGN-H2A-V2F-;PBVGN-H2A-V2F-;PBVGN-H2A-V2F-; S3-63-HG3F263GHN- ; 4KSIJB0CA?A0BC00,F0A,0C0?A00,00D,Y0KSEREKIZB0,,Y0JEK? A0,I5A0B0,,,OPP?A00,F0?000C,B00X0LISD0?A0 ,B0,LIS?A0;;,00I5A0B0,B0,,;BBDA0BB?A0BC00,F0A0 ;00,FBF,,0I!B,0C,OI!,AC0,0A0IS3-63-HG3F263GHN- ; 4KSIJB0CA?A0BC00,F0A,0C0?A00,00D,Y0KSEREKIZB0,,Y0JEK? A0,I5A0B0,,,OPP?A00,F0?000C,B00X0LISD0?A0 ,B0,LIS?A0;;,00I5A0B0,B0,,;BBDA0BB?A0BC00,F0A0 ;00,FBF,,0I!B,0C,OI!,AC0,0A0IS3-63-HG3F263GHN- ; 4KSIJB0CA?A0BC00,F0A,0C0?A00,00D,Y0KSEREKIZB0,,Y0JEK? A0,I5A0B0,,,OPP?A00,F0?000C,B00X0LISD0?A0 ,B0,LIS?A0;;,00I5A0B0,B0,,;BBDA0BB?A0BC00,F0A0 ;00,FBF,,0I!B,0C,OI!,AC0,0A0IS3-63-HG3F263GHN- ; 4KSIJB0CA?A0BC00,F0A,0C0?A00,00D,Y0KSEREKIZB0,,Y0JEK? A0,I5A0B0,,,OPP?A00,F0?000C,B00X0LISD0?A0 ,B0,LIS?A0;;,00I5A0B0,B0,,;BBDA0BB?A0BC00,F0A0 ;00,FBF,,0I!B,0C,OI!,AC0,0A0IS3-63-HG3F263GHN- ; 4KSIJB0CA?A0BC00,F0A,0C0?A00,00D,Y0KSEREKIZB0,,Y0JEK? A0,I5A0B0,,,OPP?A00,F0?000C,B00X0LISD0?A0 ,B0,LIS?A0;;,00I5A0B0,B0,,;BBDA0BB?A0BC00,F0A0 ;00,FBF,,0I!B,0C,OI!,AC0,0A0IS3-63-HG3F263GHN- ; 4KSIJB0CA?A0BC00,F0A,0C0?A00,00D,Y0KSEREKIZB0,,Y0JEK? A0,I5A0B0,,,OPP?A00,F0?000C,B00X0LISD0?A0 ,B0,LIS?A0;;,00I5A0B0,B0,,;BBDA0BB?A0BC00,F0A0 ;00,FBF,,0I!B,0C,OI!,AC0,0A0IS3-63-HG3F263GHN- ; 4KSIJB0CA?A0BC00,F0A,0C0?A00,00D,Y0KSEREKIZB0,,Y0JEK? A0,I5A0B0,,,OPP?A00,F0?000C,B00X0LISD0?A0 ,B0,LIS?A0;;,00I5A0B0,B0,,;BBDA0BB?A0BC00,F0A0 ;00,FBF,,0I!B,0C,OI!,AC0,0A0IS3-63-HG3F263GHN- ; 4KSIJB0CA?A0BC00,F0A,0C0?A00,00D,Y0KSEREKIZB0,,Y0JEK? A0,I5A0B0,,,OPP?A00,F0?000C,B00X0LISD0?A0 ,B0,LIS?A0;;,00I5A0B0,B0,,;BBDA0BB?A0BC00,F0A0 ;00,FBF,,0I!B,0C,OI!,AC0,0A0IS3-63-HG3F263GHN- ; 4KSIJB0CA?A0BC00,F0A,0C0?A00,00D,Y0KSEREKIZB0,,Y0JEK? A0,I5A0B0,,,OPP?A00,F0?000C,B00X0LISD0?A0 ,B0,LIS?A0;;,00I5A0B0,B0,,;BBDA0BB?A0BC00,F0A0 ;00,FBF,,0I!B,0C,OI!,AC0,0A0IS3-63-HG3F263GHN- ; 4KSIJB0CA?A0BC00,F0A,0C0?A00,00D,Y0KSEREKIZB0,,Y0JEK? A0,I5A0B0,,,OPP?A00,F0?000C,B00X0LISD0?A0 ,B0,LIS?A0;;,00I5A0B0,B0,,;BBDA0BB?A0BC00,F0A0 ;00,FBF,,0I!B,0C,OI!,AC0,0A0IS3-63-HG3F263GHN- ; 4KSIJB0CA?A0BC00,F0A,0C0?A00,00D,Y0KSEREKIZB0,,Y0JEK? A0,I5A0B0,,,OPP?A00,F0?000C,B00X0LISD0?A0 ,B0,LIS?A0;;,00I5A0B0,B0,,;BBDA0BB?A0BC00,F0A0 ;00,FBF,,0I!B,0C,OI!,AC0,0A0IS3-63-HG3F263GHN- ; 4KSIJB0CA?A0BC00,F0A,0C0?A00,00D,Y0KSEREKIZB0,,Y0JEK? A0,I5A0B0,,,OPP?A00,F0?000C,B00X0LISD0?A0 ,B0,LIS?A0;;,00I5A0B0,B0,,;BBDA0BB?A0BC00,F0A0 ;00,FBF,,0I!B,0C,OI!,AC0,0A0IS3-63-HG3F263GHN- ; 4KSIJB0CA?A0BC00,F0A,0C0?A00,00D,Y0KSEREKIZB0,,Y0JEK? A0,I5A0B0,,,OPP?A00,F0?000C,B00X0LISD0?A0 ,B0,LIS?A0;;,00I5A0B0,B0,,;BBDA0BB?A0BC00,F0A0 ;00,FBF,,0I!B,0C,OI!,AC0,0A0I SG3-63-HG3F263GHN- ; 4001BIWBF,0,,;;000B0;,;0B0I!B,0 C,OIW,B0,?00?0;B,FB0,,I8D;ABF,0FXBD;A9aWWISG3-63-HG3F263GHN- ; 4001BIWBF,0,,;;000B0;,;0B0I!B,0 C,OIW,B0,?00?0;B,FB0,,I8D;ABF,0FXBD;A9aWWISG3-63-HG3F263GHN- ; 4001BIWBF,0,,;;000B0;,;0B0I!B,0 C,OIW,B0,?00?0;B,FB0,,I8D;ABF,0FXBD;A9aWWISG3-63-HG3F263GHN- ; 4001BIWBF,0,,;;000B0;,;0B0I!B,0 C,OIW,B0,?00?0;B,FB0,,I8D;ABF,0FXBD;A9aWWISG3-63-HG3F263GHN- ; 4001BIWBF,0,,;;000B0;,;0B0I!B,0 C,OIW,B0,?00?0;B,FB0,,I8D;ABF,0FXBD;A9aWWISG3-63-HG3F263GHN- ; 4001BIWBF,0,,;;000B0;,;0B0I!B,0 C,OIW,B0,?00?0;B,FB0,,I8D;ABF,0FXBD;A9aWWISG3-63-HG3F263GHN- ; 4001BIWBF,0,,;;000B0;,;0B0I!B,0 C,OIW,B0,?00?0;B,FB0,,I8D;ABF,0FXBD;A9aWWISG3-63-HG3F263GHN- ; 4001BIWBF,0,,;;000B0;,;0B0I!B,0 C,OIW,B0,?00?0;B,FB0,,I8D;ABF,0FXBD;A9aWWISG3-63-HG3F263GHN- ; 4001BIWBF,0,,;;000B0;,;0B0I!B,0 C,OIW,B0,?00?0;B,FB0,,I8D;ABF,0FXBD;A9aWWISG3-63-HG3F263GHN- ; 4001BIWBF,0,,;;000B0;,;0B0I!B,0 C,OIW,B0,?00?0;B,FB0,,I8D;ABF,0FXBD;A9aWWISG3-63-HG3F263GHN- ; 4001BIWBF,0,,;;000B0;,;0B0I!B,0 C,OIW,B0,?00?0;B,FB0,,I8D;ABF,0FXBD;A9aWWISG3-63-HG3F263GHN- ; 4001BIWBF,0,,;;000B0;,;0B0I!B,0 C,OIW,B0,?00?0;B,FB0,,I8D;ABF,0FXBD;A9aWWISG3-63-HG3F263GHN- ; 4001BIWBF,0,,;;000B0;,;0B0I!B,0 C,OIW,B0,?00?0;B,FB0,,I8D;ABF,0FXBD;A9aWWI G64-H4U-9-MG3FGM-6G6; 400B1B:0,b4,B0-.BB0bK;5J;97IG64-H4U-9-MG3FGM-6G6; 400B1B:0,b4,B0-.BB0bK;5J;97IG64-H4U-9-MG3FGM-6G6; 400B1B:0,b4,B0-.BB0bK;5J;97IG64-H4U-9-MG3FGM-6G6; 400B1B:0,b4,B0-.BB0bK;5J;97IG64-H4U-9-MG3FGM-6G6; 400B1B:0,b4,B0-.BB0bK;5J;97IG64-H4U-9-MG3FGM-6G6; 400B1B:0,b4,B0-.BB0bK;5J;97IG64-H4U-9-MG3FGM-6G6; 400B1B:0,b4,B0-.BB0bK;5J;97IG64-H4U-9-MG3FGM-6G6; 400B1B:0,b4,B0-.BB0bK;5J;97IG64-H4U-9-MG3FGM-6G6; 400B1B:0,b4,B0-.BB0bK;5J;97IG64-H4U-9-MG3FGM-6G6; 400B1B:0,b4,B0-.BB0bK;5J;97IG64-H4U-9-MG3FGM-6G6; 400B1B:0,b4,B0-.BB0bK;5J;97IG64-H4U-9-MG3FGM-6G6; 400B1B:0,b4,B0-.BB0bK;5J;97IG64-H4U-9-MG3FGM-6G6; 400B1B:0,b4,B0-.BB0bK;5J;97I   I-VH9G32K9GF42F;  I-VH9G32K9GF42F;  I-VH9G32K9GF42F;  I-VH9G32K9GF42F;  I-VH9G32K9GF42F;  I-VH9G32K9GF42F;  I-VH9G32K9GF42F;  I-VH9G32K9GF42F; I7LRI7TWa7I7WZJJ1WP,7Wb 
PATIENT HISTORY: CHIEF COMPLAINTPRE-OPPOST-OP DIAGNOSIS: PROCEDURE: Sigmoid colon resection SPECIFIC CLINICAL QUESTION: Not answered OUTSIDE TISSUE DIAGNOSIS: Not answered PHIOR MALIGNANCY: Not answered CHEMOTHEHAPY NOI answered ORGAN TRANSPLANT: Not answered IMMUNOSUPPRESSION: Not answered OTHER DISEASES: Not answered FINAL DIAGNOSIS: SIGMOID COLON, SEGMENTAL COLECTOMYSigmoid colon mass Collection Dete A, ULCERATED, POLYPOID, INVASIVE, MODERATELY DIFFERENTIATED, COLONIC ADENOCARCINOMA, 3 CM, PRESENT IN THE SIGMOID COLON 3 CM FROM THE PROXIMAL AND 5,5 CM FROM THE DISTAL RESECTION MARGINS, B, CARCINOMA INVADES DEEPLY INTO, BUT NOT THROUGH THE MUSCULARIS PROPRIA. C, PRESUMED ANGIOL YMPHATIC INVASION see diagnosis GI, D, ONE SMALL TUBULAR ADENOMA. E, ALL SURGICAL RESECTION MARGINS, SUBSEROSAL AND SEROSAL SURFACE ARE BENIGN, F, NON-NEOPLASTIC COLONIC MUCOSA WITH NO SIGNIFICANT HISTOPATHOLOGIC ABNORMALITY, G, METASTATIC COLONIC ADENOCARCINOMA IS PRESENT AND LARGELY REPLACES TWO OF TWELVE 212 REGIONAL LYMPH NODES. THE LARGER METASTATIC FOCUS MEASURES 0.4 CM, NO EXTRACAPSULAR EXTENSION IS IDENTIFIED, H, TNM PATHOLOGIC STAGE: T2 N1 MX see synoptic, CASE SYNOPSIS:  SYNOPTIC DATA PRIMARY COLON, RECTAL, APPENDIX TUMORS SPECIMEN TYPE: Sigmoidectomy SPECIMEN LENGTH: 11,5 em TUMOR SITE: Sigmoid colon TUMOR CONFIGURATION: Exophytic polypoid TUMOR SIZE: Greatest dimension: 3 em Additional dimensions: 3 x 1,7 em Not applicable INTACTNESS OF MESORECTUM: HISTOLOGIC TYPE: HISTOLOGIC GRADE: PATHOLOGIC STAGING pTNMI: MARGINS: Adenocarcinoma Low-grade well to moderately differentiated pT2 pN1 Number of nodes examined: 12 Number of nodes involved: 2 pMX Treatment: Untreated Proximal margin uninvolved by invasive carcinoma Distal margin uninvolved by invasive carcinoma Circumferential radial margin Not applicable Mesenteric margin uninvolved by invasive carcinoma If all margins uninvolved by invasive carcinoma: distance of invasive carCinoma from closest margin: 30 mm Margin: Proximal ANGIOLYMPHATIC INVASION: Present PERINEURAL INVASION: Absent TUMOR BORDER CONFIGURATION: Infiltrating ADDITIONAL TUMOR CHARACTERISTICS: None ADDITIONAL PATH FINDINGS check all that apply: Adenomas 
Diagnosis: This is a poorly differentiated adeno carcinoma of the sigmoid colon of histopathological differentiation grade G3 , with erosions of the inner tumor surface, with peritumorous chronic recurrent secondary inflammation with an acute inflammatory flare, with tumor infiltration of the colon wall layers as far as the pericolic fatty connective tissue, with carcinomatous lymphangitis, with tumor -free lymph nodes 016 with moderate chronic lymphadenitis and tumor -free overview s lices from all other parts of the resection material described. According to the section preparations available, the tumor spread of the sigmoid carcinoma corresponds to the tumor stage pT3, pN0 016, MX, L1, R0 with regard to the so- called radial resection margin, this shows a mature, predominantly fatty connective tissue, with regard to the lymph nodes, these show a metastasis 1 of 13 of the carcinoma described. Summary t umor classification : ICDO -DA M -81403 G3 
Tumor entity in block A Colic adenocarcinoma with characteristic solid and ductal cell elements, with loss of cell nucleus polarity and increased chromatin image. Invasion of around 1 cm with infiltration of the bordering fatty connective tissue pT3 Tumor classification TNM, 6 th edition Stage grouping ICDO -DA M -81403 G2 pT3, pN0, MX, L1, V1 R0
Diagnosis: This is a poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma of the colon right colon flexure of histopathological differentiation grade G3, with ulceration and erosions of the inner surface of the tumor, peritumorous, chronic recurrent concomitant inflamma tion, accompanied by an acute inflammatory flare, with carcinomatous lymphangitis, tumor infiltration in the parietal layers of the colon as far as the extramuscular, subserous fatty connective tissue, with tumor -free lymph nodes 020, moderate chronic l ymphadenitis, with a diverticulum in the tumor. Tumor -free overview slices from all other resection margins identified, from the perivascular fatty tissue of the central ligature and the omental fatty tissue. According to the sections available, the tumor spread the colon carcinoma corresponds to a tumor stage of pT3, pN0, MX, L1, R0. Tumor classification: ICDO -DA-M 81403 
 SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT  Addendum  .... Clinical Diagnosis  History: with left sigmoid colon cancer. Specimens Submitted: 1: SP: Sigmoid colon; resection 2: SP: Additional distal margin 3: SP: Proximal margin 4: SP: Distal margin DIAGNOSIS: 1. SP: Sigmoid colon; resection: Tumor Type: Adenocarcinoma with mucinous features 50 mucinous component Histologic Grade: Moderately differentiated Tumor Location: Sigmoid colon Tumor Size: Length is 2.2 cm Width is 1.5 cm Maximal thickness is 0.8 cm Tumor Budding: Absent Increased Tumor Infiltrating Lymphocytes: Absent Precursor Lesions: Not identified Deepest Tumor Invasion: Subserosal adipose tissue andor mesenteric fat Gross Tumor Perforation: Not identified Lymphovascular Invasion: Suspected Large Venous Invasion: Not Identified Perineural Invasion: Not identified Surgical Margins: Free of tumor PolypsMucosa Dysplasia away from the carcinoma:  Continued on next page  ------------------------------------------------------------ Page 2 of 4 Not Identified Non-Neoplaatic Bowel: Unremarkable Tattoo pigment ia identified conaiatent with the aite of a prior procedure Lymph Nodea: Number with metaataaia: 0 Total number examined: 20 Tumor depoaita in pericolorectal aoft tiaaue: Not Identified Tumor Staging AJCC 7th Edition : pT3 Tumor invadea through the muacularia propria into pericolorectal tiaauea Lymph Node Stage AJCC 7th Bdition  : NO No regional lymph node metaataaia 2. COLON, ADDITIONAL DISTAL MARGIN; RESECTION: -BENIGN SEGMENT OF COLON WITH NO PATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS. 3. COLON, PROXlMAL MARGIN; RBSBCTION, -BENIGN SEGMENT OF COLON WITH NO PATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS. 4. COLON, DISTAL MARGIN; RBSBCTION, -BENIGN SEGMENT OF COLON WITH NO PATHOLOGIC DIAGNOSIS. I ATTEST THAT THB ABOVE DIAGNOSIS IS BASED UPON MY PERSONAL BJ:AMXNATION OF THB SLIDBS ANDOR OTHER MATERIAL , AND THAT I HAVB RBVIBWBD AND APPROVBD THIS RBPORT. Special Studiea, Reault Groaa Deacription, Special Stain u COIIIIDent 1. The apecime n ia received freah and ia labeled aigmoi d colon, diatal end ia open. It conaiata of a aigmoid colon that meaaurea 13.5 cm in length and 7.5 em in greateat circumference. The aeroaal aurface ia tan-red and amooth. The proxLmal margin ia inked black and the diatal margin ia inked blue. The apecimen ia opened to reveal a tumor that ia located 5.0 em from the proxLmal margin and 8.0 em from the diatal margin. The tumor meaaurea 2.2 cm in length and 1.5 em in width. Serial aectioning reveala tumor invaaion to a depth of 0.8 em, which ia 0.5 em from the cloaeat radial margin. The remaining mucoaa ahowa no groaa anomaliea. Pericolic and peri-rectal adipoae tiaaue ia thoroughly examined for lymph nodea, and all poaaible  Continued on next page  nodes are submitted. Representative sections are submitted. TPS is submitted. Summary of sections: PM - proximal margin DM - distal margin T - tumor U - uninvolved mucosa LN - lymph nodes BLN - bisected lymph node 2. The specimen is received in formalin, labeled additional distal margin and consists of an unoriented portion of colon measuring 1.2 cm in length and 2.0 cm in circumference. The serosa is tan-red and grossly unremarkable. The mucosa is tan-gray and grossly unremarkable. The specimen is entirely submitted. Summary of sections: U - undesignated 3. The specimen is received in formalin, labeled proximal margin and consists of a silver metal anastomotic pin measuring 7.5 X 2.8 X 1.5 cm. At the center of the pin, a 3.2 cm plastic piece is noted. A ring of pink tan soft tissue is attached measuring 2.0 x 1.8 x 1.0 cm. The mucosal surface is pink tan and focally hemorrhagic and the serosal surface is pink tan and smooth. Several sutures are noted. The sutures are removed and the soft tissue is entirely submitted. Summary of sections: U - undesignated 4. The specimen is received in formalin, labeled distal margin and consists of a portion of pink tan soft tissue measuring 2.0 x 1.8 x 1.0 cm. The mucosal surface is pink tan and focally hemorrhagic and the serosal surface is pink tan and smooth. Several sutures are noted. The sutures are removed and the specimen is entirely submitted. Summary of sections: U - undesignated Summary of Sections:  Continued on next page  Part 1: SP: Sigmoid colon; resection Block Sect. Site PCs 2 BLN 4 1 DM 1 5 LN 15 1 PM 1 5 T 5 1 U 1 Part 2: SP: Additional distal margin Block Sect. Site PCs 2 U 2 Part 3: SP: Proximal margin Block Sect. Site PCs 2 U 2 Part 4: SP: Distal margin Block Sect. Site PCs 2 U 2 Addendum Diagnosis 1. Colon, sigmoid; resection: - The focus suspicious for lymphovascular invasion is lost on deeper levels. An immunohistochemical stain for D2-40 does not provide evidence for lymphovascular invasion.  End of Report  
Path First Tumor Tumor Site: Sigmoid Distal Date of Cancer Sample Procurement: Histology: Adenocarcinoma Description of other histology: Grade: Mucinous: C No r Yes C Yes  Focal  C Unknown Signet Ring Feature: C No C Yes C Yes  Focal  C Unknown Histologic Heterogeneity: C No C Yes C Unknown Host Response: Crohn s like reaction r None C Yes C Unknown Plasma cell rich stroma C No C Yes C Unknown Growth Pattern:C ExpansileC Expansile r Invasiveand InvasiveC Unknown Inflammatory Bowel Disease re No C Yes C Unknown Angiolymphatic Invasion: C No C Yes C Unknown Mutator Phenotype: C No C Yes C Unknown Number of Slides Garland Necrosis present: C No C Yes C Yes Focal  C Unknown TIL Cells  HPF Pathologist Comment: CL I-3 taf G am, Nos t4013 UUID:8C4517E8-8E37- 4BA2-AF33 -5621F1C572AB TCGA-DM-A2SC-01A-PR Redacted III IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII III IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHE IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIS; tc  ,,4N, S,norbC. Q9.1 CrOrla Diagnosis Discrepanry Primary Tumor S;e Discrepancy HIPM Dlsa epany Prior Malignanry History DualS ndironoui pjma!q Cax la Iclrc1-1: Reviewer Initlalca
SURGICAL PATHOLOGY Surgical Pathology Report Diagnosis: Colon, ascending, right hemicolectomy Tumor Histologic Type: adenocarcinoma, colon primary see comment Histologic Grade: low grade grade 2 of 4, moderately differentiated Tumor Size: 8.2 cm Tumor Location: cecum Depth of Invasion: through muscular is propria and into pericolonic adipose tissue, no definitive penetration or per foration of visceral peritoneum identified Lymphovascular Invasion: not identifi ed Perineural Invasion: not identified Margins: negative Proximal margin: 10.1 cm Distal margin: 11.6 cm Mesenteric vascular margin: 6.1 cm Regional Lymph Nodes: Total number with metastases: 0 Total number examined: 16 Additional Pathologic Findings: Focal mucinous di fferentiation less than 10 of tumor, no significant intra - or peritum oral lymphoid response, fibrous obliteration of appendiceal lumen AJCC PATHOLOGIC TNM STAGE: pT3 pN0 Note: This pathologic stage assessment is based on information available at the time of this report, and is subject to change pending clinical review and additional information. Immunohistochemistry for mismatch repair protein expression: MLH1: loss of nuclear expression abnormal phenotype, positive internal contr ol present MSH2: normal phenotype MSH6: normal phenotype Comment: Materials are submitted to the Molecular P athology lab for microsatellite instability MSI testing. The results will be reported separately. Clinical History: colon cancer. Gross Descrip tion: Received is one appropriately labeled container, additionally labeled ascending colon. Specimen fixation: formalin Parts of bowel received: terminal ileum 10.3 cm long x 4.1 cm in circumference, large bowel 18.7 cm long x 7.2 cm in circumferen ce, appendix 4.7 cm long x 1.0 cm in diameter and pericolonic adipose tissue 21.2 x 6.5 x 6.5 cm Specimen length: please see Parts of bowel received Orientation: proximal mucosal marginblue, radial marginred, distal mucosal marginblack Tumor l ocation: proximal ascending colon Gross appearance of tumor: The mass is firm, pin ktan and fungating with raised borders and central ulceration. The mass involves the ileocecal valve. Tumor dimensions: 8.2 x 5.1 x 2.5 cm protruding into the lumen Circumferential growth: approximately 90 of lumen involved by mass Gross depth of invasion: The mass extends through the muscularis propria and into the underlying adipose tissue. Gross evidence of perforation through visceral peritoneum: no Luminal obstruction: The lumen is obstructed and the diameter of the lumen at the tumor site is 1.4 cm. Bowel circumference at tumor site: 8.7 cm Gross distance of tumor from margins: The mass is 10.1 cm to the proximal margin, 11.6 cm to the distal margin, 3.4 cm to the lateral edge of the specimen margin, and 6.1 cm to the mesenteric pedicle margin. Other comments: The terminal ileal mucosa is tangray and slightly granular. The uninvolved colonic mucosa is unremarkable. The appendix is unremarkable. Lymph nodes: Sixteen lymph node candidates are identified ranging from 0.5 cm in greatest dimension up to 1.0 cm in greatest dimension. Other remarkable findings: none Tissue submitted for special investigation: Yes; normal and tumor given to Digital photograph taken: no Block summary: Inking: Proximal mucosal marginblue, distal mucosal marginblack, radial marginred A1 - proximal mucosal margin, en face A2 - distal mucosal margin, en face A3 - radial margin, en face A4 - pedicle margin, en face A5,A6 - full thickness section of mass, bisected A7 - full thickness section of mass A8 - additional section of mass into the underlying adipose tissue A9 - mass with ileocecal valve A10 - appendix A11 - four lymph nodes A12 - two lymph nodes, each bisected; one inked black A13 - two lymph nodes, each bisected; one inked black A14 - three lymph nodes, each bisected; one inked blue, one inked black A15 - two lymph nodes A16 - one lymph node, serially sectioned A17 - one lymph node, serially s ectioned A18 - one lymph node, bisected Light Microscopy: Light microscopic examination is performed by For cases in which immunostains are pe rformed, the following applies: Appropriate internal andor external positive and negative controls have bee n evaluated. Some of the immunohistochemical reagents used in this case may be classified as analyte specific reagents ASR . These were developed and have performance characteristics determined by the These re agents have not been cleared or approved by the US Food and Drug Administratio n FDA. The FDA has determined that such clearance or approval is not nece ssary. These tests are used for clinical purposes. They should not be reg arded as investigational or for research. This laboratory is certified under the Clinical Labor atory Improvement Amendments of as qualified to perform high complexity clinical laboratory testing. Signature Attending Pathologist: I have personally conducted the evaluation of the above specimens and have rendered the above diagnosises. 
ITCGA : Sample ID : Diagnosis: This is a poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma of the sigmoid colon with a histopathological grade G3 differentiation, with ulceration and erosions of the inner tumor surface, with fine foci of necrosis, with peritumorous chronic recurrent inflammation, with tumor infiltration in the layers of the sigmoid colon wall as far as the pericolic fatty connective tissue, with carcinomatous lymphangiosis, with a regional lymph node metastasis 115 and tumor-free overview sections from the resection margins. According to these prepared sections, the tumor spread of the sigmoid colon carcinoma corresponds to the tumor stage pT3, pN1 115, MX, L1, RO 10 C1-o-3 k 413 7 0 UUID:7DBAA2D8-44FA-4726 -94DC-3AFCFBFF15D5 TCGA-AA-A01T- 01A-PR Redacted IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII III IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII III VIII I I I III 11II IIII IIII I f I II II II III I III VIII II III I III IIIIII IIIIIIII
 SPECIMEN A. Right colon and terminal ileum B. Hernia sac, left inguinal C. Omentum CLINICAL NOTES PRE- OP DIAGNOSIS: Right colon cancer. CLINICAL HISTORY: Large cecal cancer, bilateral inguinal hernia left containing small bowel and sigmoid. Right containing appendix. GROSS DESCRIPTION A. Received fresh for tissue procurement labeled right colon and terminal ileum is a previously unopened 25 cm. segment of proximal right colon with attached 20 cm. of distal ileum surfaced by smooth to scabrous tan pink serosa with a copious amount of attached mucin colon, mesentery and unremarkable omentum. An appendix measuring 6.6 cm. in length which ranges from 0.7 cm. proximally up to 1.5 cm. distally is present. A scant amount of tan white fibrinopurulent exudate appears to be present, adjacent to the distal tip. On sectioning, the lumen is pinpoint, surrounded by unremarkable tan pink mucosa and no discrete transmural defect is identified. The proximal and distal margins measure 4.0 and 5.8 cm. in circumference respectively. On opening, there is a nearly circumferential 10.0 x 7.8 cm. firm tan pink to papilliferous tan red lesion present at and distal to the ileocecal valve. On sectioning, the lesion has a maximal thickness of 3.4 cm. with extension into the surrounding mesentery to within 0.5 cm. of the inked free radial serosal surface. The colonic mucosa is otherwise glistening tan pink with regular folds in the wall averaging 4 cm. in thickness. Several additional purple tan pink to tan red polypoid lesions measuring up to 1.2 cm. in greatest dimension are present. The largest polyp is 7 cm. distal from the mass. The ileal mucosa is unremarkable, glistening tan pink with regular folds and the wall averages 0.5 cm. in thickness. A portion of tumor and portion of normal mucosa are submitted for tissue procurement as requested. Multiple rubbery tan white to tan pink tissues in keeping with lymph nodes measuring up to 6 cm. in greatest dimension. The four largest lymph nodes appear involved by metastasis representative sections only given. Representative sections are submitted in eighteen blocks as labeled. RS- 18. BLOCK SUMMARY: 1 - Proximal and distal margins; 2- 5 - tumor to inked free radial serosal surface cassette 4 and 5 contain bisected single slice with point of continuity inked orange; 6 - tumor to distal mucosa; 7- 9 - additional colonic polyps 7 - one polyp, 7 cm. distal from large tumor, 8 and 9 - two polyps per cassette; 10 - random ileum and colon; 11 - proximal appendix and one- half of bisected distal tip; 12 - remainder of bisected distal tip; 13 - six whole lymph nodes; 14 - five whole lymph nodes; 15 - four whole lymph nodes; 16 - representative of two grossly positive lymph nodes; 17,18 - representative of two g itive lymph nodes one node represented per cassette. B. Received fresh, subsequently fixed in formalin labeled hernia left inguinal is an 11 x 6.5 x 1.5 cm. pink- tan fibromembranous saccular tissue with yellow lobular fat. The specimen is sectioned to show no other discrete gross lesions identified. Representative sections of the specimen are submitted in two cassettes. RS-2 C. Received fresh, subsequently fixed in formalin labeled omentum is a 13 x 8 x 3 cm. piece of fatty tissue consistent with omentum. The specimen is sectioned to show a yellow lobular fatty cut surface which is grossly consistent with omental fat. No discrete gross lesions are identified or palpated. Representative se ions of the specimen are submitted in eight cassettes. RS- 8 MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION A. Microscopic examination of the right colon and terminal ileum resection specimen reveals Histologic type: Invasive adenocarcinoma not otherwise specified Histologic grade: Moderately differentiated Primary tumor pT: Tumor originates in cecum and extensively infiltrates through the wall of the cecum and is present on the serosal surfacepenetrates visceral peritoneum pT4A Proximal margin: Negative for tumor Distal margin: Negative for tumor Circumferential radial margin: Not applicable. Distance of tumor from closest margin: 20 cm. from proximal margin Vascular invasion: Prominent lymphatic space invasion is present. Regional lymph nodes pN: Metastatic adenocarcinoma is present in 4 of 17 lymph nodes pN2a Non-lymph node pericolonic tumor: Present with prominent extranodal tumor metastases adjacent to the appendix in the periappendiceal fat and adjacent to the large pericolonic lymph nodes. Distant metastasis pM: Cannot evaluate pMx Other findings: Five adenomatous polyps are present. Deep to the largest adenomatous polyp which is 7 cm. distal from the large primary tumor there is intracolonic metastasis with additional adenocarcinoma present in the muscularis propria and in dilated lymphatic spaces. B. Microscopic examination reveals benign fibromembranous tissue lined by mesothelium consistent with hernia sacs. No tumor is identified within the hernia sac tissue. C. Microscopic examination of the omentum reveals fatty tissue. No metastatic tumor is identified in the omentum. DIAGNOSIS A. Right colon and terminal ileum, resection: Invasive moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma of the cecum invasive through the entire colonic wall through the visceral peritoneum present on serosal surface pT4a. Much lymphatic space invasion present, intracolonic metastasis present 7 cm. distal to tumor. Five additional adenomatous polyps present. Metastatic adenocarcinoma present in 5 of 18 pericolonic lymph nodes pN2a. Extranodal tumor present including periappendiceal extranodal metastatic tumor. Mucosal margins negative for tumor. B. Hernia sac, left inguinal, resection: Benign hernia sac tissue, no malignancy identified. C. Omentum, excision: Benign omental fat, no malignancy identified. --- End Of Report --- 
Diagnosis diagnoses : Colon and rectosigmoid resection material show an ulcerated colon carcinoma characterized histologically as a moderately differentiated colorectal adenocarcinoma, extending to within 3.5 cm of a resection margin, probably the aboral r esection margin, encircling the colon wall at a length of 6 cm. Invasive tumor spread tumor within all intestinal wall layers to the bordering mesocolic fatty tissue. The oral and aboral resection margin is tumor -free. Thirty -three mesocolic lymph nodes ar e tumor -free with uncharacteristic reactive lesions. Tumor stage: pT3 pN0 033 L0 V0; G2. 
 TCGA-05-6533 page 1 I 1 Examination: Histopathological examination mination No.: Material: Multiple organ resection- transverse colon with the distal part of the stomach Material collected on: Material received on: Expected time of examination: Clinical diagnosis: Cancer of the transverse colon Infiltrating the stomach Examination performed on: Macroscopic description: 30 em length of the large lntestine1 with periintestinal fat tissue sized 30 x 8 x 2cm1 the omentum sized 30 x 15 em and part of the stomach sized 11 x 8 x 4 em. Cauliflower-shaped tumour sized 10 x 8 x 4 em found In the intestinal mucosa. The lesion surrounds 100 of the intestine clrcumference1 10 em from the proximal cut line and 10 em from the distal cut line. The lesion invaded macroscopically through the stomach wall. Microscopic description: Adenocarcinoma tubulopapillare Gl. lnfiltratio carcinomatosa parietis intestinl crassi totius et parietis ventriculi. Minimum side margin Is o em. Incision Jines ends free of neoplastic lesions. Sinus hisocytosis lymphonodorum No VIII. Histopathological diagnosis: l.Wl!aJI,IRtWlEICRI!fllifnltt!Wgl!lEJll:,B!JlgJffrf G1; Dukes 8; Astler Coller 83; pT4b; pNO. Compliance validated CALL YOUR DOCTOR WITH THIS REPORT! 
r Sample Diagnosis: 1.: Subcapsular portion of the liver parenchyma with von Meyenburg s complex moderately developed fatty infiltration of the parenchyma. 2.: Resectate of a portion of the colon sigmoid colon with a tubulovillous colonic mucosal adenoma ,extending no closer than 4.5 cm to a resection margin and measuring 1.8 cm at its greatest diameter ,with severe epithelial dysplasia synonym :high-grade intra -epithelial neoplasia and with transitions into a moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma of the colorectal type ,or colon carcinoma ,fully circumferential and continuing into the internal portions of the submucosa. Oral and aboral resection margins tumor-free. Seventeen mesocolic lymph nodes tumor -free with uncharacteristic reactive changes. Tumor stage therefore pTl pNO 017 LO VO; G2 R0. UUID:57E011E8-44BE-4921-BAB0-7A4F22AC4C48 TCGAAActed IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII3 III IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII ,a;d coot cYIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII III IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII  y,, CmerYVas Dianosh DHcre acV ancV PI Tumor Site Diura HIPAAD15ae aru-Y Pria MaI1Lec HistoryD oted D15QUAll ual5 mme QUALIM0 C..i lc del: weJ Re ie r I E
Cp d- 3 tCiYLdCiLCGn cyYrrivun 6c-icca . aV UUID :73512C13-D2EB -4E6C-9A26 -3759252F385A  S p  el g 7 IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII1IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII edFirst Tumor11111111111111111IIIIIII IIIIII11111111111111111111111111111III IIIIIIII I IIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 11111II11111I IIIIIIIIIIII I I II I III8yo3 0I Tumor Site: Sigmoid Distal Date of Cancer Sample Procurement: tology : Adenocarcinoma Description of other histology: Grade : Moderately Differentiated  Mucinous :r No r Yes:Yes Focalr Unknown Signet Ring Feature : G, No r YesYes Focalr Unknown Histologic Heterogeneity :r No r Yes r Unknown Host Response : Lymphoid Aggregates Crohn s like reactionr None :-Yes r Unknown Plasma cell rich stromar No r Yes rUnknown Growth Pattern :r Ex ansile o Invasiver Expansilep r Unknownand Invasive Inflammatory Bowel Diseaser No rYes r Unknown Angiolymphatic Invasion : No r yes r Unknown Mutator Phenotype: rNo Yes rUnknown Number of Slides i Garland Necrosis present : r No r YesC Yes FocalC Unknown TIL Cells  HPF .4 Pathologist Comment: DiaRr osis Discrepancy Primary Tumor Site Discrep HIFM Discrepancy Prior Malignancy History chranou
CGA-A6-2683 SPECIMEN A. Right colon B. Liver biopsy CLINICAL NOTES PRE-OP DIAGNOSIS: Ascending colon cancer. GROSS DESCRIPTION A. Received fresh for tissue procurement, labeled right colon, is a previously unopened1 12 em segment of proximal to right colon v1ith attached 6 ern of distal ileum surfaced by smooth scabrous tan-pink serosa with a moderate amount of attached mesocolon and mesentery. An unremarkable 5.7 em appendix averaging 0.65 em in diameter is present. The proximal and distal margins measure 7.5 and 6 em in circumference respectively. On opening, there is a circumferential, 8.5 x 6.5 em tumor mass extending from the ileocecal valve into the colonic segment. The tumor is present within 7 em of the distal margin. On sectioning, the tumor has a maximal thickness of 1.2 em, grossly extending into the muscularis to Nithin 0.4 em of the inked free radial serosal surface see blue blocks 2-4. The uninvolved ileal and colonic mucosa is unremarkable, glistening tan-pink-red with irregular folds and the walls average 0.5 em in thickness. A portion of tumor and a portion of normal mucosa are submitted for tissue procurement as requested. Several soft to slightly rubbery pale tan tissues in keeping with lymph nodes measuring up to 1.2 em in greatest dimension are recovered from the attached mesocolon and mesentery. Representative sections are submitted in 13 blocks as labeled. RS-13. BLOCK SUMMARY: l -Proximal and distal margin; 2-4 -tumor to inked free radial serosal surface; 5 -central tumor; 6 -tumor at ICD; 7 -random ileum and colon; 8 -appendix; 9, 10 -eight Nhole lymph nodes per cassette; 11 -seven whole lymph nodes; 12, 13 -one bisected lymph node per cassette. GROSS DESCRIPTION B. Received in formalin, labeled liver biopsy, is a core biopsy of white tissue that measures 2 x 0.2 x 0.2 em. in dimension. The tissue is entirely submitted for permanent section in cassette labeled B. AS-1 MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION A. This right hemicolectomy specimen has an infiltrating adenocarcinoma beginning at the ileocecal valve and extending into the colon. Please see the template beleN: Histologic type: Infiltrating adenocarcinoma. Histologic grade: Moderately to poorly differentiated. Primary tumor pT: Tumor extends to the visceral peritoneum, pT4. Proximal margin: Negative for tumor. Distal margin: Negative for tumor. Circumferential radial margin: Negative for tumor. Distance of tumor from closest margin: The tumor is 7 em. from the distal margin. Vascular invasion: Not detected. Regional lymph nodes pN : All 25 regional lymph nodes are negative for metastatic disease, 025, pNO. Non-lymph node pericolonic tumor: Negative. Distant metastasis pM : As per part B, metastatic disease is present in the liver, pMl. Other findings: Appendix, no significant pathology. B. This core of tissue is composed entirely of metastatic, moderately to poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma consistent with colonic origin. There is a markedly desmoplastic stroma. No residual hepatic parenchyma is present. MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION 5, 4 DIAGNOSIS A. Right colon, right hemicolectomy -Moderately to poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma of the right colon, extending deeply into pericolonic fat and to the inked serosal peritoneal surface. All other margins and all 25 regional lymph nodes are negative for tumor. Appendix and portion of terminal ileum, no significant pathology. B. Liver, core biopsy -Moderately to poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma consistent vlith metastasis from colonic primary. 
FINAL DIAGNOSIS A. COLON, SIGMOID, RECTUM RESECTION: INFILTRATING WELL DIFFERENTIATED ADENOCARCINOMA ARISING IN A TUBULOVILLOUS ADENOMA 4 CM TUMOR IS LOCATED IN THE SIGMOID, AND EXTENDS THROUGH MUSCULARIS PROPRIA TO SURROUNDING PERI COLONIC ADIPOSE TISSUE. TUMOR IS 3 CM FROM CLOSEST OPENED MUCOSAL MARGIN OF RESECTION, EXTENDS TO 0.6 CM FROM CLOSEST SEROSAL ANTI-MESENTERIC SURFACE AND THE MESENTERIC RADIAL MARGIN IS 3.5 CM. SMOOTH MUSCLE PROLIFERATION IDENTIFIED IN SEROSAL ADHESIONS CONSISTENT WITH PARTIAL MYOMECTOMY AS DESCRIBED INTRA OPERATIVELY. ADDITIONAL FINDINGS ARE NOTED IN NON-NEOPLASTIC MUCOSA INCLUDING DIVERTICULAR DISEASE WITH RUPTURED DIVERTICULITIS AND ASSOCIATED SOFT TISSUE INFLAMMATION AND FIBROSIS, AS WELL AS INCIDENTAL HYPERPLASTIC POLYP 0.1 CM. ALL SURGICAL MARGINS AND TWENTY-ONE REGIONAL LYMPH NODES, NEGATIVE FOR TUMOR. PATHOLOGIC STAGE: pT3 NO MX B. DONUTS RESECTION: HISTOLOGICALLY UNREMARKABLE SEGMENTS OF LARGE SYNOPTIC REPORT SYNOPTIC REPORT. COLON AND RECTUM CAPAJCCACS -REQUIRED ELEMENTS SPECIMEN TYPE: PARTIAL COLECTOMY SPECIMEN SIZE: 16 CM TUMOR SITE: SIGMOID TUMOR SIZE: 4 CM HISTOLOGIC TYPE: ADENOCARCINOMA HISTOLOGIC GRADE: 1 EXTENT OF INVASION: THROUGH MUSCULAR PROPRIA j IF THROUGH MUSCULARIS PROPRIA, DISTANCE BEYOND: 0.1 CM j OTHER ORGANS INVOLVEDVISCERAL PERITONEUM SPECIFY: NONE MARGINS. f PROXIMAL: UNINVOLVED f,l DISTAL: UNINVOLVED j, RADIAL MESENTERIC: UNINVOLVED 3.5 CM j, 1IF MARGINS UNINVOLVED, DISTANCE TO CLOSEST MARGIN: 0.6 CM FROM LYMPHATIC INVOLVEMENT PRESENTABSENT: ABSENT VENOUS LARGE VESSEL INVOLVEMENT PRESENTABSENT: ABSENT LYMPH NODES: j INVOLVEDEXAMINED: 021 OTHER PERTINENT FINDINGS: SEE NARRATIVE pTNM STAGE: pT3 NO MX 
Resected section of colon sigma with a colon carcinoma of the histological type of a moderately differentiated, partially mucus -producing colorectal adenocarcinoma, measuring a maximum of 2 cm in diameter, and stretching up to 4.5cm to a margin of the resected material. The tumor has spread invasively to the internal sections of the muscularis propria. Diagnosis: Otherwise the intestinal wall has some pseudodiverticula and peridiverticulitis with chronic scarring. Oral and aboral margin of the resected material is tumor -free. 22 mesocolic lymph nodes tumor -free with uncharacteristically reactive changes. Tumor stage therefore pT2, pN0 022 L0, V0; G2 R0. 
Tumor entity This concerns a moderately differentiated, invasive colic adenocarcinoma, partly of the type of an extracellular mucus -forming carcinoma with penetration of all wall layers pT3, L0, V0, with free resection margins and concomitant chronic re current appendicitis. There are also free lymph nodes. pN0
SPECIMEN Extended right hemicolectomy CLINICAL NOTES PREOP DIAGNOSIS: Hepatic flexure cancer. POST-OP DIAGNOSIS: Same. GROSS DESCRIPTION TCGA-A6-2680 Received unfixed for tissue procurernent1 labeled extended right hemicolectomy is a portion of the ileum that is 9.5 em in length, and 3 em in circumference. There is an attached portion of colon that is 22 em, which includes the cecum and ileocecal valve. The average circumference of the colonic portion of the specimen is 7.3 em. Vall thickness is, on average1 0.4 em. In the distal end of the colonic segment is a tumor that is circum.ferential1 with raised1 rolled edges and central ulceration, 9 x 4.2 em in cross sectional area. The tumor mass is 5.7 em from the distal margin, and 24 em from the proximal ileal margin. The mass is 1 em from the ileocecal valve. A portion of tumor and normal tissue is submitted for tissue procurement. Sectioning through the tumor shows subserosa! invasion1 but the mass does not reach the serosal surface. Representative sections submitted in 13 blocks as labeled. RS-13 BLOCK SUMMARY: 1 -proximal and distal margins; 2-4 -tumor full thickness to inked free radial serosal surface; 5 -tumor to normal mucosa; 6 -ICV; 7 and 8 -random colon; 9-11 - 9 whole lymph nodes per cassette; 12 - 8 Ylhole lymph nodes; 13 - 1 bisected lymph node. MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION Histologic type: Adenocarcinoma Histologic grade: Moderately-differentiated Primary tumor pT3: carcinoma invades through the muscularis propria into the subserosa. Proximaldistalcircumferential margin: Distance of tumor from closest margin: Vascular invasion: Not identified Negative 5.7 from distal margin Regional lymph nodes pNO: 34 negative lymph nodes 034 Non-lymph node pericolonic tumor: not identified. comment: There is a small nodule of surface tumor submitted with lymph nodes; slide also reviewed by , who agrees lith this interpretation. 5 DIAGNOSIS Colon, hepatic flexure, extended hemicolectomy: Adenocarcinoma1 moderately-differentiated, with invasion through the muscularis propria into the subserosa pT3. Margins of excision negative. Angiolymphatic invasion not identified. Thirty-four negative lymph nodes 034. 
Path First Tumor Tumor Site: Ascending Colon A Date of Cancer Sample Procurement: Histology : Adenocarcinoma Description of other histology: Grade: Well Differentiated Mucinous:C No C Yes FocalYesr Unknown Signet Ring Feature: r No C Yes r YesFocalC Unknown Histologic Heterogeneity: r No C Yes r Unknown Host Response: NoneA,I Crohns like reaction r: None f Yes C Unknown Plasma cell rich stroma r No r Yes r Unknown Growth Pattern: r Expansile r Invasive CExpansiler Unknownand Invasive Inflammatory Bowel Disease r No r Yes r Unknown Angiolymphatic Invasion: r: No C Yes r Unknown Mutator Phenotype: r No r Yes CUnknown Number of Slides 11 Garland Necrosis present: r: No C Yes C YesFocalr Unknown TIL Cells  HPF 3.4 Pathologist Comment: U1JID:1CA5DFB2- 8059-4D71-862C-638393435618 TCGA-DM-A28G-01A-PR Redacted III IIII11111111111I1111IlOllillIlIIIIIIIIII III IilIIIIIIIIIII IIIIlill llIl11111111111lOlull lIlOIIIIICb-0-3 CQcF 4cuA,;. or,, M S Plo3 i Synchronow r-VDu: C.ssa is! 4.l.:I:LD  D;cuAIIfxO Re;wer Inra I z :  D tr: Pa awed :  J 3..- r -T---1HIPP  D :aspanry  o, W hgnenq Hi ;ory 9 t t. I- Diagnosis Dit .rp.rncv PriT-t umnriceC :screysncy .-a.o:j c61  a fNte:la Yes ---
Reporting Information Consultant-In-Charge Submitting Physician Histopathology Report DIAGNOSIS Caecal biopsy: -Malignant lymphoma, consistent with large B cell lymphoma. GROSS DESCRIPTION Final Final Final Final The specimen is received in formalin, labelled with patients data, and designated colonic biopsy. It consists of 3 pieces of tissue measuring 0.2cm to 0.4cm in greatest dimension. Alinked blue; no reserve MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION Sections show 3 pieces of colonic mucosa featuring infiltrating sheets of intermediate to large malignant cells, sparing the crypts and causing focal surface erosion. Immunohistochemical studies done show: CD 3 Negative CD 5 Negative CD 10 Negative CD 20 Positive CD 21 Negative CD 23 Negative Bcl-2 Positive Bcl-6 Positive Cyclin Dl Negative D2-40 Negative MUM 1 Positive MIB-l High with 80 Of lesional cells demonstrating positivity 
 Surgical Pathology Histopathological Examination Path Collected: Received: upplement: Pre-Op Diagnosis Order Physician Specimens Frozen Diagnosis Report : SUPPLEMENTAL REPORT, Po This supplemental report is issued to report FISH results. FISH analysis is negative for the t11;14 translocation. This finding, in conjunction with the negative immunohistochemical stain for cyclin Dl, excludes mantle cell lymphoma. The FISH study does show another IGH rearrangement involving an unknown partner chromosome. IGH rearrangements are commonly seen in diffuse large B-cell lymphoma. The final diagnosis is thus amended as follows: Colon Segment, Terminal ileum and right colon Terminal ileum and right colon, resection: - CD5-positive diffuse large B-cell lymphoma.  Five lymph nodes, no tumor present 05. Intradepartmental consultation obtained. this case was discussed witn i KERR KEK KERR KEKE KERR KERRIER EKA KKK KEK KK GROSS EXAMINATION: The specimen is received in formalin in a container labeled with the name of the patient and identified as colon segment, terminal ileum and right colon. Length of Terminal Ileum: 20 cm Circumference of Terminal Ileum: Up to 11 cm Length of Colon: 12 cm Circumference of Colon: Up to 7.5 cm Margins: Stapled closed THIS CONFIDENTIAL AND PRIVILEGED DOCUMENTINFORMATION IS PROTECTED BY FEDERAL AND STATE LAW. UNAUTHORIZED DISCLOSURE, DISSEMINATION OR DUPLICATION IS PROHIBITED Path : Page l of 2 Serosa: Scattered fibrous adhesions Mass: Size: 11.5 x 7 x 2.5 ecm , Type: Ulcerated and infiitrative Region: Terminal ileum, 1ileocecal valve, and cecum Distance from Margin: 7 cm, proximal; 8 cm, distal Circumference: 100 Depth of Invasion: Grossly extends through the wall Distance from Radial Margin: Approximately 1.5 cm Appendix: No Block Summary: Proximal margin 1, distal margin 2, radial margin 3, mass 4-11, uninvolved small bowel 12, uninvolved colon 13, four potential lymph nodes 14. A portion of the ubmitted for flow studies. Case reviewed with on ee DIAGNOSIS BASED ON GROSS AND MICROSCOPIC EXAMINATION: Terminal ileum and right colon, resection: - B-cell lymphoma involving full thickness of terminal jieum, ileocecal valve, and cecum See comment. - Five a  no tumor  05. COMMENT: Sections of the mass show a diffuse infiltrate of medium Sized atypical lymphocytes extending from the mucosa to the subserosal adipose tissue. Flow cytometry showed a monoclonal B-cell population positive for CD19, CD5, bright CD20, FMC-7, and lambda. As the flow cytometry results were inconclusive, suitable immunohistochemical stains were evaluated to further characterize this lymphoma. Immunohistochemical stains show the tumor cells to be positive for BCL-6, CD23, CD5, and PAX5. Cyclin Dl, MUM-1l, CD10, CD3, and CD43 are negative. A MIB-1 proliferative index iS approximately 50. This is a challenging case. The immunoprofile is of a B-cell lymphoma. The differential diagnosis is between a CD5 positive diffuse large B-cell lymphoma versus an atypical mantle cell lymphoma. Tissue has been sent for FISH studies for the t11;14 translocation to help clarify the diagnosis. Results of FISH studies will be reported in an addendum when available. Intradepartmental consultation obtained. Results communicated to ian Signed by: THIS CONFIDENTIAL AND PRIVILEGED DOCUMENTINFORMATION IS PROTECTED BY FEDERAL AND STATE LAW. UNAUTHORIZED DISCLOSURE, DISSEMINATION OR DUPLICATION IS PROHIBITED Path : St visit : Page 2 of 2 
CGA-AG4015 Diagnosis: a Resected colon sample with tumor-free oral, aboral and perirectal resection margins and including an ulcerated, moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma with infiltration of the perimuscular fatty tissue G2, pT3, LI, vO, RO, pNO 024. Page
GA-AG-4008 In I this is an invasive, poorly - a of the colon G3 with penetration of all the parietal layers and vascular infiltrates pT3, Li, V1. Tumor classification: ICDO-DA-M 81403 G3 pT3 L1, vil, pNO MX consistent with RO Page 1
Diagnosis diagnoses: Resected colon sample with an ulcerated, moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma of the colorectal type, located 3.5 cm from the aboral resection margin, with broad infiltration of the pericolic fatty tissue, circumscribing an adjoining seminal vesicle. There are five local lymph node metastases. Tumor -free colon resection margins. The minimum distance of the tumor to the circumferential resection margin is 0.2 cm. The tumor stage is: pT4, pN2 534, pM1 clinical liver metastases; G2, L1, V0, clinically R2 
Diagnosis The material at hand displays a moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma of the colon with characteristic, mainly tubular tumor cell groups and clear nucleoplasmic adjustment as well as infiltration of the muscularis, consistent with a classifica tion according to p T 2 and vascular infiltration L1, V1. In relation to the resection margins, the margins are free, separated in the mucous membrane area by mucosa, submucosa and muscularis. Tumor formula summary: ICDO -DA-M 81403 G2 p T 2, L1, V1, p N 0. 
Diagnosisdiagnoses Resected colon shows a moderately differentiated, ulcerated adenocarcinoma of the colorectal type, measuring a max of 5 cm, with infiltration of the pericolic fatty tissue. Circumscribed  tuberous, peritoneal tumor metastasis located distally to the tumor. In addition, tumor -free regional lymph nodes. Tumor -free mesenteric resection margin. Tumor -free colon resection margins. : The tuberous, peritoneal tumor metastasis must first and foremost be assessed in relation to a lymph node metas tasis. Stage of tumor: pT3, pN1 128 pM1; G2, L0, V0, R2. 
Diagnosis: I shows colon mucous membrane with parallel crypts and associated mucosa and submucosa. II shows a moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma colon carcinoma, G2 with penetration of all parietal layers pT3, and lymph vessel invasion. There are also lymph node metastases of the carcinoma described pN2. III shows free anastomosis rings. There was no evidence of any residual tumor in preparations I. and III., so that the resection margins were free in relation to this situation. Preliminary information is being compiled. Tumor classification : ICDO -DA-M 81403 G2 pT3, pN2, L1 
UUID:88242410-FD42-47A7.99E6 -0E8F62807A51 TOGA-DX-AB35-91A -PR Redacted III 11111111111111111111111111 I I II IIIIIIIlIIlIllII111111111111111IIIIII 1111111111111111111111111III I IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT,1 3 Clinical Diagnosis  History: History of retroperitoneal liposarcoma initially status post resection now with recurrence. Specimens Submitted: 1: Left radical nephrectomy left colectomy resection of psas and illiacus muscle 2: Small bowel 3:Mesenteric nodule 4: Abdominal scar DIAGNOSIS: 1.Left nephrectomy left colectomy resection of psas and illiacus muscle, radical resection: -Recurrent high grade dedifferentiated liposarcoma ,involving left colon wall ,encasing left kidney and ureter. -The tumor has a multinodular growth pattern, the largest nodule measuring 18.5 x 15 .5 x 12.0 cm. -The dedifferentiated component shows a high grade myxofibrosarcoma -like morphology ,comprising 50 of the mass. -Tumor necrosis is present ,estimated as 25 grossly. -Tumor is surrounded grossly by a thin membrane which represents the surgical resection margin. -Colon,ureter,and renal vascular margins are free of tumor. -Muscle tissue is not involved by tumor. -Renal parenchyma with glomerulosclerosis and non -specific interstitial inflammation. 2.Small bowel, resection: -Focalareasof scarring. -Serosa with fibrosis, adhesion, mild acute and chronic inflammation. -No evidence of malignancy. 3.Soft tissue ,Mesenteric nodule, biopsy: -Nodule of mature adipose tissue with scattered hyperchromatic stromal cells,consistent with well -differentiated liposarcoma 1.2 x1.0 x 0.5 cm. 4.Abdominal scar ,excision: -Dermal scar with acute and mild chronic inflammation.  Continued on next page SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT Em morm Page I ATTEST THAT THE ABOVE DIAGNOSIS IS BASED UPON MY PERSONAL EXAMINATION OF THE SLIDES ANDOR OTHER MATERIAL, AND THAT I HAVE REVIEWED AND APPROVED THIS REPORT.  Report Electronically Signed Out  GrossDescription: 1. The specimen is received fresh and labeled Resection of psoas and iliacus muscle, left radical nephrectomy, left colectomy. It consists of a soft tissue massmeasuring 18.5 x 15.5 x 12.0 cm, a segment of colon 9.5 cm long, 5.5 cm in circumference, left kidney 9.5 x 4.5 x 3.0 cm with attached ureter 16 cm long, 0.8 cm in diameter,and a small fragment of muscle tissue 5.5 x 3.0 x 0.8 cm. The specimen weighs 2033 grams in total. The large soft tissue massis encapsulated by a thin layer of fibrous tissue that is easily separated from the mass. The cut surface is sold, lobulated, soft, variegated including tan-yellow, to yellow-white, to friable gray. The friable dusky area occupies roughly 25 of the mass. The mass adheres to the colon wall through its fibrous capsule without grossly invading into it. The colonic mucosa is tan-pink and flat. The mass also adheres to the distal segment of the ureter, spanning 6 cm, through its capsule. The ureter is not grossly involved by the tumor. Sectioning of the kidney and the perirenal adipose tissue reveals two additional lobulated tumors, most likely contiguous with the main mass,being attached to the lower pole and in the hilum, separated by 2.5 cm. The sizes of these nodular masses are 8.4 x 6.5 x 3.8 and 3.5 x 3.0 x 2.0 cm respectively with homogenous tan-yellow cut surface. Both are encapsulated by thin capsules. Neither of the two tumors is invading into the renal parenchyma. The renal parenchyma is thinned ranging from 1.5 to 2.5 cm. The renal pelvis and calyces are mildly dilated. The muscle tissue is attached to superior and posterior aspect of the kidney and is 2.0 cm from closest tumor. No adrenal tissue is grossly identified. The specimen is photographed. Sections of the tumor and normal kidney and perirenal fat are submitted for TPS. Representative sections are submitted for permanent. Summary all sections: UM - distal ureteral margin and renal vascular margin PCM - proximal colon resection margin DCM - distal colon resection margin Ti - largest tumor TC -T1 to colon TU -Ti to ureter M - muscle tissue T2 - tumor attached to lower pole T3 - renal hilar tumor T1T2fibroadipose tissue linked between two nodular areas T2T3section in between two nodular areas K random kidney  Continued on next page SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT ------------------------------------------------------------ pave 3 of 4 2The specimen was received fresh ,labeled Small bowel and consists of an unoriented segment of small bowel measuring 37.0 cm in length and ranging from 4.0 to 7.5 cm in circumference .The serosa is pink purple focally shaggy with minute areas of gray -tan fibromembranous adhesions ,and minimal attached adipose tissue .Both ends are stapled shut. The specimen is opened to reveal red-brown plicated ischemic mucosa ,with a wall averaging 0.4 cm in thickness .A segment of small bowel measuring 8.2 cm in length is folded back upon itself ,possible an anastomosis .A 1.5 cm in greatest dimension focus of firm induration is identified 5.0 cm from one margin near the anastomosis ,with a suture on the serosal surface. Representative sections are submitted. Summary of sections: AM - margin closest to anastomosia ON - opposite margin I - firm focus RS -representative sections 3The specimen is received fresh ,labeled mesenteric nodule, and consists of a 1 .2 x 1.0 x 0 .6 cm portion of tan soft tissue .The specimen is bisected and entirely submitted. Summary of sections: U - undesignated 4The specimen is received fresh ,labeled abdominal scar and consists of a gray -tan wrinkled ellipse of skin measuring 21.0 x 4 .1 x 0.6 cm. A portion of the skin ellipse is firm and indurated. The specimen is representatively submitted. Summary of sections: U - undesignated Summary of Sections: Part 1: Left radical nephrectomy left colectomy resection of peas and illiacus muscle Block Sect. Site 1 DCM 1 MPCs 1 1  Continued on next page SURGICAL PATHOLOGY REPORT ------------------------------------------------------------ Page 4 of 4 1 PCM 1 R 1 10 T1 20 1 T1T2 1 5 T2 5 1 T2T3 1 2 T3 2 2 TC 2 2 TU 2 1 UN 3 Part 2 : BlockSmall bowel Sect.Site PCs 1 AM 2 1 FF 1 1 ON 2 2 RS 2 Part 3 : Block 1Mesenteric nodule Sect. Site UPCs 2 Part 4: Block 1Abdominal scar Sect. Site UPCs 3  End of Report  CriteriaYes No Diagnosis Discrepancy Primary Tumor Site Discrepancy HIPAA Discrepancy Prior Malignancy History DualSynchronous Primary Noted II UAL FQUAUFIED DISQrc Case is c Reviewer InitialsDate Reviewed:ile:
